
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: Exhibit C – RIWI Corp Q2 2022 MD&A.pdf
PAGES: 13
==================================================



 RIWI CORP. 
 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS 
 For the Three Months Ended June 30th, 2022 and 2021 
 Containing information up to and including August 25th, 2022 
 (Expressed in United States Dollars) 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING 
 Management’s  discussion  and  analysis  (“MD&A”)  details  RIWI  Corp.’s  (“RIWI”  or  the  “Company”)  operating 
 results  and  financial  condition  as  at  and  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  and  2021,  and  is  prepared  as 
 at  August  25,  2022.  This  MD&A  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Company’s  unaudited  condensed  interim 
 financial  statements  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  and  the  notes  thereto  which  were  prepared  in 
 accordance  with  International  Financial  Reporting  Standards  (“IFRS”)  (collectively  referred  to  as  the  “Financial 
 Statements”),  which  are  available  on  www.sedar.com  .  Other  information  contained  in  this  document  has  also 
 been prepared by management and is consistent with the data contained in the Financial Statements. 
 Internal  control  over  financial  reporting  is  a  process  designed  to  provide  reasonable  assurance  regarding  the 
 reliability  of  financial  reporting  and  the  preparation  of  the  financial  statements  for  external  purposes  in 
 accordance  with  IFRS.  The  Company’s  certifying  Officers,  based  on  their  knowledge,  having  exercised 
 reasonable  diligence,  are  also  responsible  to  ensure  that  these  filings  do  not  contain  any  untrue  statement  of  a 
 material  fact  or  omit  to  state  a  material  fact  required  to  be  stated  or  that  is  necessary  to  make  a  statement  not 
 misleading  in  light  of  the  circumstances  under  which  it  was  made,  with  respect  to  the  period  covered  by  these 
 filings,  and  these  Financial  Statements  together  with  the  other  financial  information  included  in  these  filings  fairly 
 present  in  all  material  respects  the  financial  condition,  results  of  operations  and  cash  flows  of  the  Company,  as 
 of the date of and for the periods presented in these filings. 
 The  Board  of  Directors  approves  the  Financial  Statements  and  MD&A  and  ensures  that  management  has 
 discharged  its  financial  responsibilities.  The  Board’s  review  is  accomplished  principally  through  the  Audit 
 Committee, which meets periodically to review all financial reports, prior to filing. 
 CAUTION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
 This  MD&A  contains  forward-looking  information,  future-oriented  financial  information,  or  financial  outlooks 
 (collectively,  “forward-looking  information”),  which  includes  disclosure  regarding  possible  events,  conditions  or 
 financial  performance  that  is  based  on  assumptions  about  future  economic  conditions  and  courses  of  action. 
 Often,  but  not  always,  forward-looking  information  can  be  identified  by  the  use  of  words  such  as  “plans”,  “seeks,” 
 “expects”  or  “does  not  expect”,  “is  expected”,  “estimates”,  “intends”,  “anticipates”,  “projects”,  “budgets”, 
 “forecasts”,  “does  not  anticipate”,  “believes”,  “objective”,  “strives”  or  variations  of  such  words  and  phrases,  or 
 statements  that  certain  actions,  events  or  results  “may”,  “could”,  “would”,  “might”  or  “will”  be  taken,  occur  or  be 
 achieved. 
 Should  one  or  more  of  these  risks  or  uncertainties  materialize,  or  should  assumptions  underlying  the 
 forward-looking  information  prove  incorrect,  actual  results,  performance  or  achievement  may  vary  materially  from 
 those  expressed  or  implied  by  the  forward-looking  information  contained  in  this  MD&A.  These  risk  factors 
 should  be  carefully  considered  and  readers  are  cautioned  not  to  place  undue  reliance  on  forward-looking 
 information,  which  speaks  only  as  of  the  date  of  this  MD&A.  All  subsequent  forward-looking  information 
 attributable  to  the  Company  herein  is  expressly  qualified  in  its  entirety  by  the  cautionary  statements  contained  in 
 or  referred  to  herein.  The  Company  does  not  undertake  any  obligation  to  release  publicly  any  revisions  to  this 
 forward-looking  information  to  reflect  events  or  circumstances  that  occur  after  the  date  of  this  MD&A  or  to  reflect 
 the occurrence of unanticipated events, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. 
 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
 Additional  information  relating  to  the  Company  is  available  from  the  SEDAR  website  at  www.sedar.com  ,  under 
 the Company’s profile. 
 2 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 RIWI OVERVIEW 
 RIWI  Corp.  (“RIWI”  or  the  “Company”)  is  a  public  company  and  its  shares  are  all  common  shares  listed  on  the 
 TSX  Venture  Exchange  (TSXV:  RIWI).  The  Company  was  incorporated  under  the  laws  of  Canada  pursuant  to 
 the  Canada  Business  Corporations  Act  on  August  17,  2009.  The  Company’s  head  office  is  located  at  180  Bloor 
 Street  West,  Suite  1000,  Toronto,  Ontario,  M5S  2V6  and  RIWI’s  registered  office  is  located  at  Suite  1700,  Park 
 Place, 666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6C 2X8. 
 RIWI’s  vision  is  to  be  the  most  trusted  and  transparent  source  of  global  data.  To  be  the  most  trusted  and 
 transparent  source  of  global  data  means,  first,  that  RIWI  needs  to  monetize  data  sets  that  our  customers 
 consider  mission-critical.  Second,  it  means  that  we  need  to  lead  the  global  data  industry  in  our  transparency  in 
 terms  of  how  we  collect  and  aggregate  new,  impactful  data  feeds.  Third,  it  means  we  need  to  leverage  our 
 proven  strengths  and  our  unique  pedigree  –  RIWI’s  clients  include  some  of  the  most  data-sophisticated  groups 
 in  the  world  and  our  work  has  been  peer-reviewed  in  top  academic  journals  –  to  build  new  subscription-based 
 products  that  meet  our  clients’  growing  and  diverse  data  needs.  RIWI’s  offerings  will  expand  to  include  other 
 types  of  alternative  data  which  offer  new  and  combined  products  and  data  solutions  for  customers.  As  we  move 
 forward  towards  fulfilling  our  vision,  RIWI  will  offer  customers  both  a  portal  platform  from  which  they  can  source 
 all  of  their  essential  data  needs  as  well  as  a  technology  and  analytics  tool  suite  within  the  platform  to  analyze 
 and  manage  the  diverse  data  which  they  can  purchase.  As  the  global  data  market  is  large  and  growing  rapidly  – 
 and  the  requirements  across  different  customer  segments  are  considerable  –  RIWI  has  chosen  to  focus  on  three 
 main  customer  segments:  (i)  International  Development,  (ii)  Financial  Services,  and  (iii)  Public  Health  and  Health 
 Systems.  In  addition,  we  have  been  receiving  interest  in  a  new  customer  segment  called  Public  Policy  and 
 Macroeconomics  that  we  are  exploring.  Management  has  selected  these  customer  segments  based  on 
 feedback  from  our  clients,  the  strategic  review  completed  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2021,  the  competitive 
 landscape  and  addressable  markets,  and  the  opportunity  for  RIWI’s  existing  technology  to  win  annual  recurring 
 revenues in these segments. 
 The  Company  currently  provides  a  global  trend-tracking  and  prediction  technology  platform.  Our  patented, 
 cloud-based  software  solutions  provide  a  global  digital  intelligence  platform  to  clients  seeking  real-time 
 consumer  and  citizen  sentiment  data  anywhere  in  the  world  in  order  to  improve  business  performance,  evaluate 
 program  effectiveness,  enhance  customer  engagement,  identify  misinformation  online,  and  monitor  emerging 
 threats  before  these  threats  escalate  to  violence.  After  the  close  of  Q2,  RIWI  also  announced  the  acquisition  of 
 Research  on  Mobile  (ROM),  a  platform  that  matches  survey  respondents  with  global  survey  marketplaces  –  such 
 as  Dynata,  Netquest,  Cint  and  Lucid  –  dynamically,  offering  RIWI  new,  transactional  revenues.  This  acquisition 
 will enhance our platform enabling us to support incentivized surveys and longer form surveys. 
 The  RIWI  platform  empowers  customers  to  not  only  collect  sentiment  data,  but  also  to  perform  message  testing 
 and  conduct  marketing  campaigns  that  reach  people  online  who  are  not  engaged  by  traditional  digital  marketing 
 campaigns.  RIWI  has  several  unique  selling  propositions,  including:  (i)  an  option  to  avoid  the  collection,  storage 
 and  transfer  of  personally  identifiable  information  (“PII”),  (ii)  the  ability  to  be  in  field  collecting  data,  in  any 
 country,  within  12  to  24  hours  to  support  rapid-response  needs,  and  (iii)  data  science  capabilities  and  real-time 
 dashboard analytics for multiple users dispersed across the globe at any client organization. 
 RIWI  customers  can  benefit  from  not  only  leveraging  our  platform  for  data  collection  and  analytics,  but  can  also 
 benefit  from  buying  data-only  RIWI  subscriptions.  More  RIWI  customers  are  leveraging  RIWI  in  a 
 Data-as-a-Service  (DaaS)  model  as  we  build  out  our  global  database  of  information  and  develop  more  long-term 
 subscription-based  trackers.  The  RIWI  platform  currently  stores  over  2  billion  responses  from  interviewees  to 
 RIWI  surveys  across  229  countries.  In  keeping  with  our  vision  to  be  the  world’s  most  trusted  and  transparent 
 source  of  global  data,  much  of  the  RIWI  data  now  being  collected  can  be  monetized  for  broader 
 commercialization  with  new  clients  over  time.  Some  illustrative  examples  of  work  undertaken  in  the  second 
 quarter  of  2022  include:  data  predicting  the  outcome  of  elections  in  Israel,  data  on  changing  military  tensions 
 between  countries,  data  on  media  literacy,  information  on  the  online  ‘gig’  economy,  and  on  the  displacement  of 
 people in Ukraine. 
 3 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 1.  RIWI Highlights for the three months ended June 30, 2022 – in US Dollars: 
 a) 
 RIWI  completed  the  acquisition  of  Research  on  Mobile  (ROM)  on  July  1,  2022.  ROM  is  a  leading 
 research  platform  that  profiles  survey  respondents  and  dynamically  matches  them  to  global  research 
 marketplaces  from  which  commercial  customers  buy  data.  Under  the  terms  of  the  arms-length 
 transaction,  a  total  purchase  consideration  of  USD  $525,000  of  cash  (“Consideration”)  was  agreed  to  in 
 connection  with  the  closing  of  the  transaction.  The  Consideration  includes  $125,000  held  back  for  any 
 post-closing  adjustments.  In  addition,  the  sellers  of  ROM  may  be  entitled  to  receive  additional  earn-out 
 payments  subject  to  the  satisfaction  of  certain  revenue  and  profitability  targets  as  well  as  employee 
 retention  targets  for  the  2022,  2023  and  2024  RIWI  fiscal  years  .  There  is  no  ROM  revenue  included  in 
 RIWI’s  second  quarter  results,  however,  there  are  $78,375  costs  that  are  included  as  part  of  the 
 transaction.  ROM-related  revenues  will  be  included  in  the  Company’s  results  beginning  the  third  quarter 
 of 2022. 
 b) 
 RIWI  signed  12  new  client  contracts  in  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022,  including  contract 
 signings with three new RIWI customers. 
 c) 
 RIWI  earned  $368,680  in  revenues  in  the  second  quarter  of  2022  compared  to  $1,260,250  for  the  three 
 months  ended  June  30,  2021.  As  a  result  of  the  Company’s  strategic  focus  in  2022  of 
 subscription-based  products  and  annual  recurring  revenues  in  addition  to  traditional  projects,  RIWI’s 
 year-over-year  decrease  in  revenue  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  is  partially  due  to  the 
 transition  aw  ay  from  shorter-term,  project-based  initiatives  which  historically  enabled  the  Company  to 
 recognize  a  majority  of  revenues  for  most  projects  soon  after  any  project  launch.  The  second  quarter's 
 revenue  decline  was  also  affected  by  a  delay  in  revenue  recognition  of  approximately  $400,000,  which, 
 historically,  has  been  recognized  by  the  Company  in  the  second  quarter,  but  this  year  did  not  meet  the 
 IFRS  revenue  recognition  criteria  as  of  June  30,  2022.  Management  fully  expects  to  recognize  this 
 revenue  since  the  work  with  this  customer  is  ongoing  in  nature.  The  decrease  is  also  a  result  of  the 
 departure  from  the  Company  of  salespeople  selling  mainly  pro  fessional  services  projects;  the  Company 
 continues  to  recruit  new  sales  and  technical  personnel  focused  on  selling  data  products  and 
 subscriptions.  The  Company  remains  committed  to  increasing  its  customer  base  and  recurring  revenue 
 streams,  along  with  focusing  on  sales  activities  and  building  out  our  sales-focused  partnership 
 ecosystem  to  win  new,  long-term  and  recurring  business.  This  decrease  in  revenues  –  and  technical 
 costs  incurred  in  the  development  of  subscription-based  products  –  resulted  in  a  net  loss  of  $658,318  for 
 the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022,  as  compared  to  a  net  profit  of  $45,241  for  the  three  months 
 ended June 30, 2021. 
 d) 
 For  the  period  ending  June  30,  2022  the  Company’s  total  cash  and  cash  equivalents  were  $3,235,078, 
 as  compared  to  $3,257,147  for  the  period  ending  June  30,  2021,  representing  a  year-over-year 
 decrease  of  $22,069,  a  decrease  of  less  than  1  percent.  Prepaid  expenses  and  other  current  assets 
 include an amount of $379,604 wired for the upfront payment of ROM on July 1, 2022. 
 e) 
 RIWI  received  a  substantial  increase,  as  compared  to  the  quarter  ending  June  30,  2021,  in  high-profile 
 international  recognition  –  such  as  peer-reviewed  academic  journals,  client  reports  and  in  international 
 media  –  for  its  innovative  technology,  data  quality,  and  access  to  global  data.  This  external  recognition 
 includes:  a  validation  of  RIWI’s  technology  as  an  effective  system  to  collect  Covid-19  vaccination  rates  in 
 real-time  across  the  United  States,  co-authored  by  researchers  at  Johns  Hopkins  University  and  Emory 
 University,  published  in  the  Journal  of  Medical  Internet  Research  ;  academic  papers  published  in  PLOS 
 One  and  the  International  Journal  for  Quality  in  Health  Care  ;  a  study  published  in  the  British  Medical 
 Journal  Global  Health  ,  authored  by  researchers  at  Boston  University;  reports  published  by  The  Wilson 
 Center,  The  Carter  Center,  and  the  UN  World  Food  Programme;  a  public  event  hosted  by  The  Center  for 
 Strategic  and  International  Studies;  and,  articles  on  RIWI  in  international  media,  including  Business 
 Insider  ,  Bloomberg  ,  The  Diplomat  ,  Yahoo  News  ,  bne  IntelliNews  ,  China  Times  ,  Deutsche  Welle  ,  The 
 Toronto Star  , and  Harvard Business Review  . 
 4 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 2.  Evolving Revenue Mix 
 On  July  1,  2022  RIWI  announced  that  it  had  completed  the  acquisition  of  Research  on  Mobile  (ROM).  ROM  was 
 a  strategic  acquisition  for  many  reasons,  including  its  ability  to  provide  RIWI  with  a  new  revenue  stream  that  is 
 being categorized as transactional revenue.  RIWI now enjoys three revenue types: 
 a) 
 Recurring  revenue  :  Recurring  revenue  is  revenue  where  a  customer  subscribes  to  either  the  RIWI 
 platform  or  to  one  of  its  data  products.  Customers  typically  sign  up  for  12  months  or  more  or  have  no 
 predetermined  end  date.  Revenue  in  this  category  is  recognized  every  month  and  is  highly  repeatable. 
 RIWI  has  been  focused  on  developing  this  revenue  stream  through  the  development  of  new  data 
 products.  This  revenue  stream  is  also  highly  scalable  as  data  is  sourced  once  and  can  be  resold  often  to 
 multiple  clients.  The  margins  on  this  type  of  revenue  also  increases  with  every  sale  as  there  is  no 
 additional  marginal  cost  (except  sales-associated  costs)  and  the  fixed  costs  can  be  dispersed  across  a 
 larger customer pool. 
 b) 
 Project-based  revenue  :  Project-based  revenue  is  the  traditional  RIWI  revenue  where  customers 
 purchase  RIWI  to  do  a  specific  survey  or  digital  message  test  in  one  or  more  countries.  Project-based 
 revenue  can  vary  from  short-term  projects  (e.g.  less  than  one  month)  to  longer  projects  that  have 
 multiple  waves  or  milestones  and  can  last  over  nine  months.  This  type  of  revenue  scales  with  both 
 people  and  technology,  thus  requiring  RIWI  to  hire  more  staff  when  there  is  a  large  uptick  in  business. 
 RIWI  now  has  a  sales-focused  customer  service  team  that  is  incentivized  to  quickly  transition 
 project-based revenue into recurring revenue, depending on the needs and budget of the client. 
 c) 
 Transactional  revenue  :  Transactional  revenue  refers  to  the  revenue  arising  from  the  ROM  acquisition 
 and  is  generated  every  time  the  ROM  system  matches  a  survey  respondent  to  an  active  survey 
 commissioned  on  one  of  the  global  research  marketplaces  and  the  respondent  completes  the  survey. 
 Transactional  revenue  scales  by  increasing  the  conversion  rates  of  survey  respondents  being  matched 
 and  completing  specific  surveys  as  well  as  by  increasing  our  respondent  pool.  To  quantify  the 
 opportunity  for  scale,  the  ROM  platform  currently  matches  approximately  1,800  respondents  per  day  out 
 of  the  approximately  100,000  survey  responses  requested.  Increasing  the  conversion  rates  as  well  as 
 integrating  more  respondents  into  the  platform  as  well  as  more  survey  marketplaces  will  greatly  increase 
 revenue without the need for associated labor. 
 RIWI  has  a  goal  of  achieving  a  revenue  mix  that  is  60  percent  recurring,  20  percent  transactional  and  20  percent 
 project-based  by  the  end  of  2024.  No  ROM  revenue  was  recognized  in  the  second  quarter  of  2022,  and, 
 therefore.  all  revenue  in  the  second  quarter  was  either  recurring  or  project-based.  As  noted  in  our  MD&A  for  the 
 first  quarter  of  2022,  RIWI  began  the  process  of  converting  project-based  revenue  to  recurring  revenue  in  the 
 current  fiscal  year  and  thus  the  majority  of  revenue  today  is  still  project-based  revenue,  however  the  mix  is 
 changing. 
 3.  Roadmap for Growth 
 As  management  noted  in  its  MD&A  for  the  2021  fiscal  year  end,  RIWI  has  a  combined  organic  and 
 acquisition-focused  growth  strategy  that  is  centered  around  being  the  most  trusted  and  transparent  source  of 
 global  data  for  our  customers.  This  requires  us  to  build  a  fully  integrated  data  platform,  including  new  analytics 
 tools  and  combined  data  feeds,  with  the  goal  of  providing  an  excellent  user  experience  to  all  of  our  customers. 
 As  we  grow  our  business  through  our  organic  and  a  value-based  acquisition  strategy,  RIWI  will  be  collecting  a 
 critical  set  of  important  new  customers  that  will  enable  us  to  upsell  and  cross-sell  new  data  products,  thereby 
 significantly  reducing  our  current  costs  associated  with  new  customer  acquisition.  This  strategy  also  helps  us 
 increase the lifetime value of an increasingly diverse customer base. 
 RIWI’s  strategy  for  organic  growth  includes  hiring  key  industry  experts  in  the  verticals  that  we  have  chosen  to 
 focus  on  as  well  as  building  subscription  products  that  will  enable  RIWI  to  build  longer-term  recurring  and 
 repeatable  revenue.  In  terms  of  industry  experts,  RIWI  has  promoted  Danielle  Goldfarb  from  our  research 
 department  to  lead  a  new  customer  segment  for  us,  namely,  the  Public  Policy  and  Macroeconomic  customer 
 segment.  This  move  has  already  resulted  in  significant  pipeline  generation.  The  current  labor  marketplace  has 
 made  the  recruitment  and  retention  of  technically-oriented  personnel  and  industry  experts  challenging  for  many 
 technology  companies,  including  RIWI.  While  we  are  focused  on  identifying  and  hiring  new  sales  staff,  the  labor 
 market is hyper-competitive and recruitment has been slower than expected. 
 5 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 3.      Roadmap for Growth (continued) 
 On  the  subscription  product  side  of  our  business,  we  continue  to  evaluate  new  potential  subscription  products  as 
 well  as  invest  in  our  Compass  series  of  indices  with  our  partner  David  Woo,  a  macroeconomist  who  works  with 
 RIWI  to  sell  into  the  Financial  Services  customer  segment.  RIWI  expects  the  Compass  data  series  to  be 
 profitable on a run-rate basis by the end of the fourth quarter, which is on schedule with our strategic plan. 
 For  growth  through  acquisition,  RIWI  is  focused  on  both  acquisitions  that  are  accretive  in  value  to  shareholders, 
 and  on  existing  customer  value-add  acquisitions.  The  ROM  acquisition  adds  significant  value  to  existing 
 customers  by  providing  RIWI  with  additional  survey  sample  and  support  for  longer,  incentivized  surveys  that 
 appeal  to  a  large  number  of  clients  in  our  priority  customer  segments.  To  that  end,  a  first  integration  between  the 
 RIWI  and  ROM  platforms  has  already  occurred,  enabling  a  significant  RIWI  customer  to  leverage  the 
 respondents  from  the  ROM  system.  In  terms  of  broader  mergers  and  acquisition  (M&A)  activity,  RIWI  continues 
 to  evaluate  other  accretive  acquisitions  and  is  currently  in  discussions  with  several  other  potential  acquisitions  at 
 various  stages  of  our  M&A  process,  some  of  which  have  the  possibility  to  close  in  the  2022  fiscal  year. 
 Management  can  offer  no  assurances,  however,  that  the  Company  will  be  able  to  complete  any  additional 
 acquisitions  in  the  current  calendar  year  as  our  M&A  roadmap  requires  careful  evaluation  of  all  potential 
 acquisitions. 
 4.  Platform: Innovating and Investing Strategically to Drive Future Growth 
 RIWI’s  patented  Random  Domain  Intercept  Technology,  which  powers  our  current  platform,  continues  to  be  a 
 differentiator  for  us  and  enables  us  to  win  large  projects,  especially  in  countries  such  as  China,  and  smaller 
 countries  across  the  world  that  are  extremely  challenging  for  most  of  our  competitors  to  access.  Our  customers 
 consistently provide us very positive feedback on the results we deliver with our platform. 
 Our  platform  was  designed  for  very  large  high-touch  full-service  customers  that  requested  ongoing  professional 
 services.  However,  the  market  is  changing  and  many  of  our  customers,  especially  in  the  academic  sector  and  in 
 the  public  policy  research  sectors,  want  to  leverage  our  technology,  but  wish  to  use  it  in  a  more  self-service 
 fashion  or  use  it  in  a  manner  that  integrates  seamlessly  into  their  other  applications.  These  requirements  and 
 several  others  have  led  RIWI  to  the  conclusion  that  we  need  to  both  maintain  our  current  platform  and  build  a 
 new  RIWI  2.0  platform  with  scalability,  multi-tenant  architecture  and  deep  integration  capabilities.  This  new 
 platform  has  been  designed  to  work  in  conjunction  with  the  ROM  platform  and  we  expect  a  first  release  of  the 
 new  platform  to  be  in  use  with  customers  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  2022,  and  with  all  functionality  and  all 
 customers  fully  migrated  to  this  new  platform  by  the  end  of  2023.  A  vision  of  what  is  coming  within  the  RIWI 
 platform is illustrated below: 
 6 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 4.  Platform: Innovating and Investing Strategically to Drive Future Growth (continued) 
 Feedback  from  our  customers  tells  us  that  if  we  can  deliver  more  of  this  enriched  functionality,  our  customers  will 
 be  willing  to  license  not  only  our  data,  but  also  license  access  to  our  platform,  providing  RIWI  both  high-margin 
 SaaS-based revenue and Data-as-a-Service (“DaaS”) revenue – both of which fall within the recurring revenue. 
 category  of  revenues  described  earlier  in  this  MD&A.  For  this  reason,  RIWI  is  investing  in  growing  our  product 
 development  team  in  order  to  better  support  our  customers  and  to  win  new  customers.  Shareholders  should 
 therefore  expect  to  see  an  increase  in  research  and  development  costs  in  the  coming  quarters  as  we  increase 
 resources devoted to building out new technical enhancements to our platform. 
 RIWI  is  committed  to  moving  forward  and  accelerating  all  aspects  of  our  business  to  fulfill  our  vision  to  be  the 
 world’s  most  trusted  and  transparent  source  of  global  data.  This  path  means:  (i)  an  unwavering  commitment  to 
 excellence  in  customer  service,  (ii)  building  out  the  RIWI  technical  and  sales  team,  (iii)  innovating  our  platform, 
 (iv) bringing new data products to market and (v) exploring strategic M&A. 
 FINANCIAL RESULTS (in U.S. Dollars) 
 The following is a discussion of the results of operations of the Company for the three months ended June 30, 
 2022 and 2021. The results should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial 
 statements for the three months ended June 30th, 2022. 
 7 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 1.  Operating Expenses 
 (a)  General and Administrative Expenses 
 (b)  Sales and Marketing Expenses 
 (c)  Technology Expenses 
 (d)  Government Subsidies 
 The  governments  of  various  jurisdictions  have  approved  legislation  and  taken  actions  intended  to  aid 
 businesses  that  have  been  adversely  impacted  by  COVID-19.  Some  of  these  actions  include  providing 
 subsidies  to  eligible  entities  to  subsidize  or  offset  qualifying  expenses.  RIWI  received  $4,966  of  the 
 Canadian  Emergency  Wage  Subsidy  (“CEWS”)  subsidy  from  the  Government  of  Canada  during  the  six 
 months  ended  June  30,  2021,  and  have  recorded  the  CEWS  subsidy  received  as  a  reduction  in  general 
 and  administrative  expense  of  $1,300,  as  a  reduction  in  sales  and  marketing  expenses  of  $3,143  and  as 
 a  reduction  in  technology  expenses  of  $523.  RIWI  received  $2,549  of  the  Canadian  Emergency  Rent 
 Subsidy  (“CERS”)  subsidy  from  the  Government  of  Canada  during  the  six  months  ended  June  30,  2021, 
 and  have  recorded  the  CERS  subsidy  received  as  a  reduction  in  general  and  administrative  expense. 
 Consulting and professional 
 8 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 2.  Financial Performance for the three months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 – in US Dollars: 
 Revenues  are  fees  that  are  charged  to  customers  for  providing  digital  surveys  or  ad  tests  and  automated 
 analytics  of  the  findings.  RIWI’s  revenue  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  decreased  by  71  percent  or 
 $891,570  representing  a  decline  from  $1,260,250  to  $368,680.  As  a  result  of  the  Company’s  strategic  transition 
 to  subscription-based  products  and  annual  recurring  re  venues  and  the  departure  of  certain  sales  personnel, 
 RIWI  missed  its  internal  revenue  targets  for  the  second  quarter  of  2022.  In  addition,  the  second  quarter's 
 revenue  decline  was  also  affected  by  a  delay  in  revenue  recognition  of  approximately  $400,000,  which, 
 historically,  has  been  recognized  by  the  Company  in  the  second  quarter,  but  this  year  did  not  meet  the  IFRS 
 revenue  recognition  criteria  as  of  June  30,  2022.  Management  fully  expects  to  recognize  this  revenue  in  the 
 current  calendar  year,  since  the  work  with  this  customer  is  ongoing  in  nature.  The  Company  remains  committed 
 to  increasing  its  customer  base  and  recurring  revenue  streams,  along  with  focusing  on  sales  activities  and 
 building  out  our  sales-focused  partnership  ecosystem  to  win  new  business.  At  this  time,  RIWI  expects  revenues 
 to  be  lower,  relative  to  2021,  for  the  remainder  of  the  2022  fiscal  year  as  we  continue  to  rebuild  the  sales  team 
 and lay the groundwork for a more scalable, high-margin platform in 2023. 
 Total  operating  expenses  decreased  by  $93,138  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  compared  to  the 
 three months ended June 30, 2021.  The key expenses are summarized as follows: 
 a) 
 General  and  administrative  expenses  increased  by  $115,744  to  $552,880  during  the  three  months  ended 
 June  30,  2022  as  compared  to  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2021  related  to  cash  compensation  of 
 $114,641  for  RIWI’s  independent  directors  with  the  addition  of  director-related  compensation  for  our  former 
 CEO,  compared  to  cash  compensation  of  $83,291  for  the  same  period  in  2021.  Additionally,  in  the  second 
 quarter  of  2022,  the  share-based  payment  expense  of  the  Company  has  increased  by  $34,171  compared  to 
 the  second  quarter  of  2021.  Finally,  office  and  general  administrative  costs  have  increased  by  $36,197 
 compared  to  the  second  quarter  of  2021  because  of  consulting  fees  for  administration  and  consulting  fees 
 from  our  former  CEO.  Consulting  and  professional  fees  as  well  as  office  and  general  administrative  costs 
 also include $78,375 related to the acquisition of July 1, 2022. 
 b) 
 Sales  and  marketing  expenses  decreased  by  $89,630  to  $305,021  during  the  three  months  ended  June 
 30,  2022  as  compared  to  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2021.  Payroll  costs  and  sales-related 
 commissions  decreased  in  the  second  quarter  of  2022  as  compared  to  the  second  quarter  of  2021,  as  a 
 result  of  the  Company  having  ended  its  contractual  agreements  with  certain  sales  and  marketing  staff  and 
 consultants.  RIWI  intends  to  hire  additional  sales  personnel  and  expects  this  expense  to  increase  in  the 
 remainder  of  the  current  calendar  year  depending  on  how  quickly  RIWI  can  hire  exceptional  sales  talent. 
 RIWI  is  committed  to  investing  in  new  sales  and  marketing  initiatives  in  order  to  build  annual  recurring 
 revenues and subscription-based sales for new and existing customers. 
 c) 
 Technology  expenses  decreased  by  $119,252  to  $236,878  during  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022 
 as  compared  to  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2021.  Project-related  costs  decreased  in  the  second 
 quarter of 2022 as compared to the second quarter of 2021, due primarily to lower revenue. 
 RIWI’s  loss  before  interest  and  taxes  was  $726,103  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022,  as  compared  to 
 the Company’s profit before interest and taxes of $70,978 for the three months ended June 30, 2021. 
 RIWI’s  income  tax  recovery  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2022  was  $58,582,  compared  to  an  expense  of 
 $25,737  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2021.  Prior  to  2022,  the  Company  assessed  income  tax  matters 
 on an annual basis, and the Company had historical tax losses to use against any taxable income it generated. 
 For  the  many  reasons  noted  earlier  in  this  MD&A,  RIWI  incurred  a  net  loss  of  $658,318  for  the  three  months 
 ended  June  30,  2022,  as  compared  to  a  net  profit  of  $45,241  for  the  three  months  ended  June  30,  2021.  RIWI  is 
 committed  to  investing  its  cash  reserves  to  recruit  new  sales  and  business  development  personnel  with  deep 
 expertise  in  RIWI’s  priority  customer  segments,  and  to  recruit  technical  personnel  in  order  to  expand  the 
 Company’s product suite for new recurring revenues and for enhanced functionality for our platform. 
 9 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS – in US Dollars: 
 This is a summary of selected results for the eight most recently completed quarters  to June 30, 2022. 
 RIWI  has  historically  had  strong  revenues  on  an  annual  basis  and,  as  noted  throughout  this  MD&A,  is  in  a 
 strategic  transformational  process  to  rely  less  on  project-based  revenues  and  more  on  annual  recurring 
 revenues  and  SaaS-based  subscription  products.  RIWI  continues  to  invest  in  sales  and  partnership  initiatives  to 
 ensure long-term, predictable growth and strong gross margins. 
 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 As  at  June  30,  2022,  the  Company  had  working  capital  of  $3,658,682  as  compared  to  working  capital  of 
 $4,464,062 as at December 31,  2021. 
 Contractual Obligations and Commitments 
 The  Company’s  head  office  currently  shares  space  with  a  third-party  firm,  and  RIWI  is  responsible  for  50  percent 
 of  the  monthly  lease  payments.  The  Company’s  lease  payments  are  $4,394  p  er  month  and  the  office  lease 
 expires on May 31, 2023. 
 10 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 CAPITAL STRUCTURE 
 a)  Common Shares:  The Company has 18,004,428 issued  and outstanding common shares. 
 b)  Stock Options:  The Company has 1,837,917 options outstanding. 
 Common Shares on a Diluted Basis 
 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 
 The Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements. 
 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
 For  the  six  months  ended  June  30,  2022,  the  Company  provided  cash  compensation  to  directors  in  the 
 amount  of  $231,792  (2021  -  $169,462),  and  recognized  share-based  payment  expenses  of  $134,918 
 (2021  -  $100,623)  for  stock  options  granted  to  the  independent  directors  and  executives.  Additionally, 
 Neil  Seeman,  the  Company's  founder  and  non-executive  Chairman  of  the  Board,  is  also  acting  as  a 
 consultant  for  the  Company  and  received  cash  compensation  of  $62,103  for  his  consulting  services  in 
 the first six months ended June 30, 2022. 
 11 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER INSTRUMENTS 
 As  at  June  30,  2022,  the  Company’s  financial  instruments  are  cash  and  cash  equivalents,  accounts  receivable, 
 and  accounts  payable  and  accrued  liabilities.  The  carrying  values  of  these  financial  instruments  reflected  in  the 
 statement  of  financial  position  are  carrying  amounts  and  approximate  their  fair  values  due  to  their  short-term 
 nature.  These financial instruments are classified as follows: 
 ●  Cash and cash equivalents – amortized cost 
 ●  Accounts receivable – amortized cost 
 ●  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities – other financial liabilities 
 The  evaluation  of  the  financial  instruments  that  are  measured  subsequent  to  initial  recognition  at  fair  value  are 
 grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable. 
 ● 
 Level  1  of  the  fair  value  hierarchy  includes  unadjusted  quoted  prices  in  active  markets  for  identical 
 assets or liabilities; 
 ● 
 Level  2  of  the  hierarchy  includes  inputs  that  are  observable  for  the  asset  or  liability,  either  directly  or 
 indirectly; and 
 ●  Level 3 includes inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 
 The Company has no financial instruments measured at fair value through the Statement of Profit or Loss. 
 The following is a discussion of the Company’s risk exposures: 
 Credit  risk  is  the  risk  of  financial  loss  to  the  Company  if  a  customer  or  counterparty  to  a  financial  instrument  fails 
 to  meet  its  contractual  obligations.  The  Company’s  trade  accounts  receivable  are  due  from  customers  and  are 
 subject to normal credit risk.  The following table provides information regarding the aged trade receivables: 
 At  each  period  end,  the  Company  reviews  the  collectability  of  outstanding  accounts  receivable  and  estimates  a 
 credit  loss  provision.  The  specific  accounts  are  only  written  off  once  all  the  collection  avenues  have  been 
 explored  or  when  legal  bankruptcy  has  occurred.  The  Company  has  a  $nil  balance  for  allowance  for  doubtful 
 accounts as at June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021. 
 Liquidity  risk  is  the  risk  that  the  Company  will  not  be  able  to  meet  its  financial  obligations  as  they  are  due.  The 
 Company  has  in  place  a  planning  and  budgeting  process  which  helps  determine  the  funds  required  to  ensure  the 
 Company  has  the  appropriate  liquidity  to  meet  its  operating  and  growth  objectives.  The  Company’s  financial 
 liabilities  consist  of  accounts  payable  and  accrued  liabilities  and  consist  of  invoices  payable  to  trade  suppliers  for 
 online  advertising  technology  services,  server  hosting,  general  and  administrative,  and  other  expenses  and  are 
 paid  within  one  year.  The  Company  expects  to  fund  these  liabilities  through  the  use  of  existing  cash  resources 
 and its continuing operations. 
 12 

 RIWI CORP. 
 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 
 For the Three Months ended June 30, 2022 and 2021 
 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND OTHER INSTRUMENTS (continued) 
 Market  risk  is  the  risk  that  changes  in  market  prices,  such  as  interest  rates  and  foreign  exchange  rates  will 
 affect  the  Company’s  net  earnings  or  the  value  of  financial  instruments.  The  objective  of  the  Company  is  to 
 manage and mitigate market risk exposures within acceptable limits, while maximizing returns. 
 (i) 
 Interest  rate  risk  :  The  Company  has  cash  balances  and  no  interest-bearing  debt,  and  is  not  exposed  to 
 any significant interest rate risk. 
 (ii) 
 Foreign  currency  risk  :  The  Company’s  activities  are  conducted  in  foreign  jurisdictions;  the  majority  of  the 
 Company’s  operating  expenses  are  in  Canadian  dollars;  and  a  portion  of  the  Company’s  cash  and  cash 
 equivalents  is  denominated  in  Canadian  dollars.  The  Company  has  not  entered  into  foreign  exchange 
 rate contracts to mitigate this risk. 
 As  at  June  30,  2022,  financial  instruments  were  converted  at  a  rate  of  US  $1.00  to  CAD  $1.2887. 
 Balances denominated in foreign currencies as at June 30, 2022 were as follows: 
 The  estimated  impact  on  net  loss  for  the  six  months  ended  June  30,  2022  with  a  +/-  10%  change  in  Canadian 
 Dollar exchange rate is approxi  mately $60,000 (2021  – $90,000). 
 RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
 There are no recent accounting pronouncements that materially affect the Company. 
 13 