
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: Founder (Outside of the Netherlands).pdf
PAGES: 34
==================================================



Power of attorney 
 
for the application of a startup visa 
 
 
 
The undersigned 
[Name], born in [town and country] on [dd-mm-yyyy], holder of a valid 
[country] passport with number [.........] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Startup visa applicant’ 
hereby authorizes and grants full power of attorney to 
[Full legal name of facilitator company], registered under the laws of the 
Netherlands, with its statutory seat and business address at [full address], and 
registered at the Dutch Chamber of Commerce (KVK), number [KVK number], 
duly represented by [representative 1], [representative 2], [representative 3] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Facilitator’. 
With respect to any and all legal acts regarding the process of a startup visa 
application in the Netherlands the Facilitator legally represents the Startup 
visa applicant with respect to any and all legal acts. 
This power of attorney shall be governed exclusively by the laws of the 
Netherlands. 
 
 
 
Date 
Name 
Signature 
 
 

 
7601-03 
 
 
 
Appendix Antecedents Certificate 
 
Who should complete this appendix? 
Pursuant to Articles 3.77, paragraph 11 and 3.86, paragraph 18 of the Aliens Decree, every foreign national aged 12 
years or older must complete this appendix. 
Please note! This statement consists of 2 pages. You must complete both pages. 
 
  
1    Declaration of the foreign national  
  
 On this form you fill in whether you have ever committed a crime or a criminal offence. These are crimes 
committed in the Netherlands and criminal offences committed outside the Netherlands. You must answer the 
questions with Yes or No. Not completing the form truthfully or failing to report is a criminal offence. This can lead 
to a sanction. Your answers may have consequences for your application or for a residence permit that you have 
previously received. 
  
 > Please tick the applicable situation 
  
 Are you currently being prosecuted for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or for 
committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 Yes  No 
  
Have you ever been sentenced to a fine, community service, penalty order by a public 
prosecutor, custodial measure or imprisonment or have you accepted an out-of-court 
settlement for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or have you ever been convicted 
of committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 
 No 
  
Have you ever committed a crime, or have you been involved in a crime as referred to in 
Article 1F of the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees? Like a murder, war crime, 
genocide, terrorist crime or crimes against humanity? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you received an entry ban from one of the countries of the EU/EEA or Switzerland?*  
Or a measure similar to an entry ban? 
 
* This is a ban on travel to the Netherlands, the EU / EEA or Switzerland. 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you submitted incorrect data during earlier residence procedures in the 
Netherlands?  
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
  
Have you ever stayed illegally in the Netherlands? 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
    
 > Have you ticked Yes for one or more questions? Then explain why. 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
7601-03 
2 Signature of the foreign national   
 
 I have completed this form truthfully. 
 I know that the IND can reject my application or withdraw my residence permit if I have ever been 
convicted of committing a crime. 
 If something changes in my situation through which my statements on this form are no longer correct, I 
will notify the IND as soon as possible. I do this within four weeks after the change in my situation. 
  
2.1 V-number (if known) 
 
           
 
2.2 Name 
 
 
2.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
    
    
       
   
   
2.4 Place and date  Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
 
 
2.5 
 
 
 
Signature  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Declaration of recognized facilitator for application start-up visa  
This is a support document that can only be used by a recognized facilitator in addition to the 
start-up visa application. It can be used by the recognized facilitator as a final check to 
supplement the existing application. It specifies all requirements for the start-up visa.  
Required and verified by the IND: https://ind.nl/en/pages/general_conditions.aspx
  
• Copy of your passport  
• Antecedents certificate  
• Tb test (if applicable)  
• Proof of sufficient means  
 
Required and verified by the RVO:  
• Agreement between start-up and recognized facilitator which includes : 
o What tailored program is provided for the start-up (including but not limited to: 
coaching, technology, research, protection IP, financing, networking events, access 
to network). 
o Whether the recognized facilitator requires a fee or equity or any other type of 
compensation from the start-up.  
o The document should be signed and dated by the recognized facilitator and the start-
up founder. The person authorized to do so should sign for the recognized facilitator.  
o What is the selection process used to select start-ups for the start-up visa facilitator 
program?   
• Business case/pitch deck of the start-up including: 
o The entity that is registered with the Chamber of Commerce and the role of the 
applicant and, If relevant,  the division of shares within the company. If the start-up is 
not yet registered in the Chamber of Commerce the recognized facilitator can 
declare in this document that they will attest that the startup will register within a 
period of six weeks. 
o The role and activities of the start-up applicant within the start-up.   
o The goal of the start-up year and the steps/activities the start-up will take to achieve 
this goal.  
o A description by the facilitator of the innovative value of the start-up and how this 
innovation is aligned with the criteria of innovation that are mentioned in the 
attachment . 
 
 
 
 

 
With this document the recognized facilitator: 
D
eclares that the start-up residence permit applicant with the following name: 
 
With the
 
 following entity as registered in the Chamber of Commerce (including KvK
 
-number): 
Or: the facilitator will see to it that the applicant will register the start-up within six weeks in the 
Chamber of Commerce with the following name and entity: 
The following persons are registered at the Chamber of Commerce (Please include specific role 
in the registration: Bestuurders, algemeen directeur, etc and mandate: zelfstandig bevoegd, 
gezamenlijk bevoegd etc.): 
T
he company has the following division of shares: 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What role will the applicant have in the start-up?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What goal (s) does the start-up want to have achieved at the end of the guidance period. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specify which milestones the start-up is planning to reach to achieve the goal mentioned above. 
Milestones are defined as SMART as possible. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Describe the innovative value of the start-up*: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Describe how the innovative value of the start-up aligns with the innovation criteria mentioned in 
the ruling (see the attachment)* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Describe how the start-up matches the selection criteria of the facilitator 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recognized facilitator:         Start-up   company:  
 
 
 
 
Location:       Location: 
 
 
 
Date:        Date: 
 
 
 
 
Name (authorized person):    Name: 
 
 
 
 
Signature **       Signature: 
 
 
 
*The innovative value and the alignment of the innovation with the criteria must be described in 
the words of the facilitator.  
**with signing the document, the facilitator declares that he/she: a. has (digitally) met the 
applicant, b. confirms that the applicant matches the selection criteria of the facilitator, c. 
confirms the innovative value of the startup and d. confirms that he/she agrees on the goals the 
start-up aims to achieve during the guidance period.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attachment: 
 
Innovation Criteria:  
The product or service is innovative if at least 1 of the 3 conditions is met: 
1. The product or service is new to the Netherlands. 
2. A new technology for production, distribution or marketing is involved. 
3. There is a new innovative organizational and process approach. 
(Non-definitive) examples can include the following: 
• The product or service is new to the Netherlands. 
• It represents new technology. 
• Original organizational structure/process. 
• Activities encouraged in the top sector policy. 
• Socially responsible enterprise. 
• Original energy conservation approach. 
• Smart and creative adaptations or combinations serving cross-sectorial applications. 
• New product/market combinations. 
• Creative or innovative market approach. 
• Social innovation. 
 

 
  
 
1 
9541 –    2025/7 
 
 
                             
Application for admission and residence as a ‘start-up’ working 
on a self-employed basis 
   
To be filled in by the Dutch embassy or consulate  
   
Location of the 
embassy/consulate where 
the application is submitted 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
    
       
 
 
Name and initials embassy 
employee 
 
 
 
 
 
Please note! If you have received a printed version of this information form, please check out the digital version, 
including direct links, on www.ind.nl. 
 
With this form, you apply for admission and residence in the Netherlands as a ‘start-up’ working on a self-employed 
basis. You can only use this form if you are a foreign national staying outside the Netherlands. You submit the 
application to the Dutch embassy or consulate in the country of origin or the country of continuous residence.* Please 
check the contact page of 
www.netherlandsworldwide.nl/mvv to     find out where and how you can make an appointment 
for this. 
 
*
 In case there is no Dutch consulate or embassy in your country of origin or permanent residence, please turn to the 
nearest Dutch representation. 
 
Appointment at the Dutch embassy or consulate 
Please take this application form, your passport photo and valid passport with you to the appointment at the Dutch 
embassy or consulate. The embassy or consulate employee will register your application and fill out the information box 
above. You will also receive a confirmation letter with your registration number (V-number). Please keep this letter: 
you will need it later. After submitting the application to the embassy or consulate, you will receive this application 
form back.  
 
After the appointment 
To be able to assess your application, the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) in the Netherlands needs 
information from you. Please complete and send this form, with all the necessary documents mentioned in section       
‘5    Means of evidence’, to the IND within three weeks from the date of your application (see the date above). Please 
also enclose the confirmation letter you received from the embassy or consulate. If you do not send all the necessary 
documents, the assessment of your application will be delayed. If the IND does not receive the information and 
documents in time, your application may be rejected.  
  
Passport photo 
size 35 x 45 mm                                   
(width x height) 
*9541* 

 
  
 
2 
9541 –    2025/7 
1    Your personal details                                                             Write in block letters 
 
1.1 V-number            
 
Please note! It is imperative that your V-number is mentioned above. Without 
this number, your application can not be processed. The embassy or consulate 
will give you this number. 
   
   
1.2 Dutch Citizen service number  
(if applicable) 
           
 
  The Dutch Citizen service number (BSN) is a unique number for everyone who 
has dealings with the Dutch government. 
   
1.3 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
   
1.4 Sex 
 
 Male        
 Female 
 
1.5 Date of birth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
1.6 Place of birth 
 
 
  
   
1.7 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
 
1.8 Nationality at birth 
 
 
 
   
1.9 Current nationality 
 
 
1.10 Civil status 
 unmarried (single or living together) 
 married 
 registered partnership 
 divorced 
 widow/widower 
   
  

 
  
 
3 
9541 –    2025/7 
1.11 Home address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
Country 
 
 
 
   
1.12 Telephone number 
 
           
 
   
1.13 E-mail  
 
1.14 Type of travel document 
 National passport 
 Diplomatic passport 
 Service passport 
 Official passport 
 Special passport 
 Other type of travel document, namely: 
  
 
 
1.15 Specifications of the travel 
document 
Travel document number 
 
 
 
Date of issue 
 
 
 
 
 
Valid until 
 
 
 
 
 
Issued by 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
  

 
  
 
4 
9541 –    2025/7 
2     Details of the facilitator 
 
2.1 Name facilitator  
 
2.2 Name contact person  
 
2.3 Correspondence address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
2.4 Telephone number            
 
 
2.5 
 
E-  mail 
 
 
 
2.6 Chamber of Commerce registration 
number 
         
 
 
3    Details of your representative in the Netherlands (if applicable)                                                 
   
 Please enclose an authorisation if the representative is acting on your behalf. If the authorised representative is 
a lawyer, no authorisation needs to be submitted. 
 
3.1 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
3.2 Nationality 
 
 
 
3.3 Address  Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
3.4 Telephone number 
 
           
 
3.5 E-mail  
 

 
  
 
5 
9541 –    2025/7 
4     Declaration of intent to undergo a TB test 
   
 In order to obtain a residence permit, you must be prepared to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test in the 
Netherlands and -  if necessary -treatment. If you are granted a residence permit, you will actually have to 
undergo a TB test within three months after having received your residence permit.  
 
When you are in the Netherlands, you should make a TB test appointment with the Municipal Health Service 
(GGD) in the area where you live or will be living (for further information visit the website www.ggd.nl
).    
 
Should it become clear after the issue of a residence permit that -  despite signing the declaration of intent - 
you failed to undergo a TB test within the period of three months, this may result in a cancellation of the 
permit that was granted.  
 
Please note! The obligation to undergo the test does not apply if you are a national of one of the countries 
listed in the appendix ‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’
. 
 
> Please check either one of the following two boxes 
 
 I hereby declare that I am prepared to cooperate in a tuberculosis test and any treatment. I am aware of 
the fact that I must undergo a TB test within three months after the residence permit has been received. 
If I fail to do so, this might have consequences for my right of residence in the Netherlands. 
 I do not need to undergo a TB test because I am a national of one of the countries listed in the appendix 
‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’. 
   
5     Means of evidence                                  
 
            Requirements of foreign means of evidence  
 Documents must be in Dutch, English, French or German. In case the documents are drafted in another 
language, you need to have these translated by an authorised translator. Send a copy of the original documents 
together with a copy of the translation. 
 
 Please gather the following documents: 
• Copy of your passport (page with your identity details as well as the pages with travel stamps, do not send 
copies of empty pages);  
• a ‘Antecedents certificate’ appendix
 tha
t you have fully completed and signed; 
• a ‘Statement due to European sanctions against Russia and Belarus’ appendix that you have fully completed 
and signed;  
• A
 step-by-step plan that contains information on: 
 your role and tasks in the start-up company (the organisation); You must have an active role. This 
means that you are not just a shareholder or financier. 
 the activities (steps) that you will take in the first year in order to move from idea to business. 
 the innovative nature of the product or service; why the product or service is innovative. The product or 
service is innovative if it has at least 1 of the following 3 aspects: 
1. The product or service is new to the Netherlands. 
2. It involves new technology for production, distribution or marketing. 
3. It involves an innovative organisational set-up and working method. 
Examples include (but are not limited to): 
o activities stimulated within the context of the Top Sectors policy.  
o self-developed new products or services. 
o original approach to energy conservation. 
o original approach to sustainability problems. 
o clever and creative adjustments or combinations for the purpose of cross-sector 
applications. 
o new product-market combinations. 
o creative or innovative market approach. 
o social innovation. 
o introduction to corporate social responsibility. 
 
 

 
  
 
6 
9541 –    2025/7 
• The signed agreement between you and your facilitator. The agreement has been signed by both of you. 
Your facilitator must be authorised to sign the agreement. The agreement in any case includes information 
on: 
 the nature of the facilitation. The facilitation must be tailor-made. This means that the facilitator is able 
to facilitate you to get your idea to a business. 
 the conditions of the agreement. These may not adversely affect or prevent a healthy development of 
your business. It may not concern a ‘unconscionable contract’. 
 the facilitator’s interest in the start-up company. The facilitator may not have a majority interest in the 
start-up company. 
• Evidence of means of support 
If you are (partially) financing the means of support yourself: 
 a copy of a Dutch bank account that is in your name or your company’s name, showing the balance 
that is available; or 
 a statement from the foreign bank where you have your account, detailing the amount (monthly) which 
is paid into the account in the Netherlands in your name or your company’s name; 
If your facilitator is (partially) financing the means of support: 
 a contract between you and your facilitator, detailing the financial resources that will be provided to 
you. 
If the means of support are being (partially) financed by a third financier: 
 an original statement from the bank that shows the amount that will be paid each month to your 
personal Dutch bank account, during your period in the Netherlands; or 
 an original statement from the financier, which states the monthly amount that will be paid to your 
personal Dutch bank account during your period in the Netherlands; and 
 a copy of your financier’s passport; and 
 a recent bank statement or bank specification which shows your financier’s bank balance. 
 • Evidence on the reliability and expertise of the facilitator. 
Please note! If, in the year before you submit your application, the RVO gave a positive recommendation 
with respect to the facilitator, you need not produce any evidence on the reliability and expertise of the 
facilitator. In that case, the RVO will assume that the facilitator is reliable and an expert. 
I declare the RVO has given a positive recommendation in the year before I submitted my application. 
 
>   Please tick 
 Yes 
 No 
 
If the RVO has not given a positive recommendation before or gave a positive recommendation more than 
one year ago, enclose with your application: 
 As many means of evidence as possible showing the expertise of the facilitator: 
o The facilitator offers you a tailor-made package of facilities. A tailor-made package means that the 
facilitator is able to facilitate the start-up entrepreneur in developing the idea into a business. This 
depends on the facilitation required by the start-up entrepreneur. The facilitator may, for example, 
assist in the business operations, marketing, conducting of research and search for investors in 
order to set up the innovative company. The agreement between you and your facilitator must 
include arrangements in this respect. 
o The facilitator is experienced. Experience means at least 2 years’ experience with facilitating 
innovative start-up entrepreneurs. At least 2 persons should be able to facilitate you. They can do 
this either jointly or alone with an equivalent substitute. You can demonstrate this by means of, for 
example, a business plan, examples of previously facilitated start-up entrepreneurs, references and 
CVs. If several persons act as facilitator, information about all facilitators will be required. 
 As many means of evidence as possible showing that the facilitator is reliable. The facilitator must be 
financially sound. In any case, the facilitator has not been granted a moratorium, has not been declared 
insolvent. He has a healthy solvency and liquidity ratio (no negative shareholders’ equity). For the 
facilitator must support you for at least 1 year. You can demonstrate this by means of, for example, 
recent financial statements (the RVO can inspect the financial statements of organisations that have a 
filing obligation with the Chamber of Commerce), agreements with or guarantees by financiers, audit 
opinions, bank statements and/or substantiated financial prognoses. 
 
  

 
  
 
7 
9541 –    2025/7 
6     Payment of fees 
 
 Before your application can be assessed, you must pay a fee. The fee for an application for admission and 
residence in the Netherlands as a ‘start-up’ working on a self-employed basis, submitted on or after 1 January 
2025, is €405. This amount must be paid by all applicants, except for citizens of Turkey, San Marino and 
Israel. The fee for citizens of Turkey is € 81. The application is free of charge for citizens of San Marino and 
Israel. You can also find this information on 
www.ind.nl. 
 
Please transfer the fee for the application to the bank account of the IND referred to below and send a proof of 
payment to the IND. 
 
As a payment reference, you must fill in your V-number, which you receive from the Dutch 
embassy/consulate where you submit your application. If you do not do this, your payment may 
not be processed properly. 
   
 Bank ING 
 IBAN  NL31INGB0705005356 
 Name Min. van Justitie en Veiligheid 601/IND LEGES Storting Bank 
 SWIFT code INGBNL2A 
 Address Postbus 85449 
 Postcode 2508 CC 
 City Den Haag 
 Payment reference Your V-number 
  
You must transfer the fee within three weeks after the date on top of this form (filled in by the Netherlands 
embassy/consulate). Your application will only be assessed when the whole amount has been received by the 
IND. Please check whether your bank deducts a fee from the amount being transferred. If the assessment of 
your application shows that you do not qualify for a residence permit in the Netherlands, you will not receive a 
refund. 
 
7     Declaration of consent  
   
 The IND will assess and decide on your application. If you wish communication with the IND to take place by e-
mail (instead of by post), you must consent to this first.  
You can email with the IND by using Zivver. Zivver is a means of securely emailing and exchanging files. Read 
more about emailing securely with Zivver a
   t ind.nl/en/send-documents. 
 
> Please check either one of the following two boxes 
 
 I agree that communication with the IND will take place by e-mail. I want the email address I provided 
above to be used for this (section 1.13). I access this email address on a regular basis. 
 
 I do not agree that communication with the IND will take place by e-mail. I want correspondence to be 
sent to the address I provided above (section 1.11). 
 
Please note! The IND accepts no responsibility for any email messages that fail to reach you or are delayed. 
The IND cannot guarantee the reliability of sending or receiving messages by email, or the confidentiality and 
integrity of email correspondence sent over the internet. 
   
  

 
  
 
8 
9541 –    2025/7 
8     What will happen with your application? 
 
 After receipt of your application, your documents and fee, the IND will assess your application. You will be 
contacted by the IND if your payment or your documents are not received. You will also be informed once the 
assessment of your application has been finalised. If your application is granted, you will also receive 
information about the follow-up procedure. 
9     MVV and residence permit 
 
 In case your application is granted you will receive an MVV (entry visa) from the Dutch embassy/consulate. 
When your application is granted you can make an appointment to collect your MVV via 
www.netherlandsworldwide.nl. T    he IND aims to have your residence permit ready within a few weeks following 
your arrival in the Netherlands. The IND will send you a letter indicating when you can collect your residence 
permit. For this, you have to make an appointment online at the IND desk stated in the letter. 
     
9.1 Intended date of 
departure to the 
Netherlands 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
9.2 Where do you want to 
collect your residence 
permit? 
 I will collect my residence permit at one of these IND desks.  
> Please check either one of the following 7    boxes  
 Amsterdam 
  
 Goes 
 ’s-  Hertogenbosch (Den Bosch) 
 Den Haag 
 Maastricht 
 Zwolle 
  
 I will collect my residence permit at one of these expat centers.  
Please note! Some expat centers charge a fee for this service and some expat 
centers require an appointment to collect the residence permit)   
> Please check either one of the following 10 boxes 
  
 Amsterdam 
 Den Haag 
 Eindhoven 
 Enschede 
 Groningen 
 Maastricht 
 Rotterdam 
 Utrecht 
 Wageningen 
 
10     Registering in the Netherlands  
 
 You need your birth certificate (legalised and translated if necessary, please check www.ind.nl) for registering 
in the Personal Records Database (BRP) a   t your local municipality after arriving in the Netherlands. This is a 
mandatory procedure. When you are registered in the BRP, you will automatically obtain a citizen service 
number (BSN), unless you already have this. 
 
  

 
  
 
9 
9541 –    2025/7 
11    Signing 
   
 Signing this form will bring you rights and obligations. If you do not know what these rights and obligations  
are, then visit the website www.ind.nl. 
 I declare I have completed this form truthfully.  
 I know that the personal details supplied will be processed in connection with the Aliens Act 2000 and will 
be passed on to authorities that need these personal details for that purpose.  
 I will pass on any changes to my situation, which will affect my right of residence, within 4 weeks to the 
IND with the ‘Notification form for family members and relatives’. I am aware that if I do not do this, it 
may affect my right of residence as foreign national. I know that I may incur an administrative fine.  
 I know what my rights and obligations are. 
   
11.1 I submit this form and (number) of appendices/documents in evidence. 
 
      
11.2 Name     
 
 
 
11.3 Place and Date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
 
11.4 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
  
 
12     Submitting this form with the necessary documents 
 
 Sign and send the completed form, a proof of payment, the appendices and the requested documents to the 
IND in the Netherlands by post. Never send any original documents. You must send clearly readable and full 
copies of the original documents. Do not use any staples or paperclips. Do not send any USB sticks, CD’s, 
DVDs and suchlike. Put all the documents in a sufficiently stamped envelope. Send this to the following 
address: 
 
Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) 
P.O. Box 5 
9560 AA TER APEL 
The Netherlands 
 
 Alternatively, you can send copies of your documents by email. You can do that by using Zivver. Zivver is a 
means of securely emailing and exchanging files. Read more about emailing securely with Zivver at 
ind.nl/en/send-documents. 
 
 
Processing of personal data 
The IND records your data in the IND systems to be able to carry out legal tasks. The IND uses and secures your 
personal data carefully and on the basis of the requirements of the privacy legislation. Read how the IND handles your 
personal data on ind.nl/en/privacy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1 
7675 - 01 
Appendix Statement due to European sanctions against Russia 
and Belarus 
The European Union has introduced various sanctions against Russia and Belarus as a result of Russia's invasion of 
Ukraine. More information about the sanctions and which people, companies and organisations in Russia and Belarus 
are on a sanctions list can be found on: www.sanctionsmap.eu. These sanctions may have consequences for the 
granting of residence permits for the purposes of companies that have ties with Russian and/or Belarusian companies or 
persons included on a sanctions list. Under the Sanctions Act, it is in fact prohibited to make funds and/or economic 
resources available to listed companies or persons. The effect of the prohibition also extends to companies that are not 
on a sanctions list themselves, but are indeed owned by or under the control of a listed company or person. By making 
this statement, you indicate whether you or your company is affiliated with a Russian or Belarusian parent company on 
the sanctions list. 
1      Details of the applicant   Fill in in block capital letters
1.1 Company name 
(name given in the articles of association 
according to Chamber of Commerce 
(KvK) 
1.2 Chamber of Commerce 
registration number  
1.3 IND client number 
(if known) 
1- 
1.4 Business address Street 
House number   and addition 
Postcode 
City/town 
1.5 Telephone number 

2 
7675 - 01 
2      Statement    Fill in in block capital letters
2.1 Is your company a subsidiary of a parent 
company? 
If the company is a sole trader, then tick 
‘No’ 
Yes
No
Skip to question 2.2  
S
kip to question 2.5 
2.2 Is the parent company Russian/Belarussian? 
 Yes
No
Skip to question 2.3 
S
kip to question 2.5 
2.3 Is the parent company in Russia or Belarus 
on the European sanctions list?  
(see www.sanctionsmap.eu) 
Yes
No
Skip to question 2.4 
S
kip to question 2.5 
2.4 Is your company under control or owned by 
the parent company in Russia or Belarus?  
See the text box on page 3    for a more 
detailed explanation of control or ownership 
Yes
No
2.5 Statement 
I declare that I am authorised to sign this statement on behalf
of the company, and I declare that I have filled in the
foregoing truthfully.
3    Signature        Fill in in block capital letters
3.1 Name  
3.2 City/town and date City/town 
Day Month Year 
3.3 S
ignature 

3 
7675 - 01 
When does ownership or control exist? 
This follows from the European Sanctions Guidelines (pdf (europa.eu) under 55a and 55b: 
Ownership: The criterion to be taken into account when assessing whether a legal person or entity is owned by 
another person or entity is possession of more than 50% o   f the proprietary rights of an entity or having a majority 
interest in it.
Control: The criteria to be taken into account when assessing whether a legal person or entity is controlled by another 
person or entity, alone or pursuant to an agreement with another shareholder or other third party, could include, inter 
alia):
 
a.having the right or exercising the power to appoint or remove a majority of the members of the
administrative, management or supervisory body of such legal person or entity;
b.having appointed solely as a result of the exercise of one's voting rights a majority of the members of the
administrative, management or supervisory bodies of a legal person or entity who have held office during
the present and previous financial year;
c.controlling alone, pursuant to an agreement with other shareholders in or members of a legal person or
entity, a majority of shareholders' or members' voting rights in that legal person or entity;
d.having the right to exercise a dominant influence over a legal person or entity, pursuant to an agreement
entered into with that legal person or entity, or to a provision in its Memorandum or Articles of Association,
where the law governing that legal person or entity permits its being subject to such agreement or provision;
e.having the power to exercise the right to exercise a dominant influence referred to in point (d), without being
the holder of that right;
f.having the right to use all or part of the assets of a legal person or entity;
g.managing the business of a legal person or entity on a unified basis, while publishing consolidated annual
accounts;
h.sharing jointly and severally the financial liabilities of a legal person or entity or guaranteeing them.
If any of these criteria are satisfied, it is considered that the legal person or entity is controlled by another person or 
entity.
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl y   ou can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 

 
  
 
1 
7606 - 07 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix Civic integration examination abroad 
 
A foreign national must sit the civic integration examination abroad. 
 
In some cases, a foreign national may be exempted based on age, diplomas, certificates or other documents. The 
foreign national can also be eligible for exemption if special individual circumstances such as age, level of education, 
financial situation or medical situation gives rise thereto. The whole personal situation of the foreign national and all the 
circumstances put forward plus the keenness shown to want to pass the examination and the necessary efforts made in 
that respect, are considered in the evaluation whether the foreign national can be exempted from the obligation to pass 
the examination. Tick the situation that applies to the foreign national and enclose the requested documents with the 
application. 
 
Period of validity of completed examination 
The civic integration examination abroad consists of 3 exam components: Knowledge of Dutch Society (in Dutch: Kennis 
Nederlandse Samenleving, Speaking skills and Reading skills.. The examination is successfully completed when the 
foreign national has passed all 3 parts. When all parts have been passed, DUO sends the results of the completed 
examination by e-mail. The completed civic integration examination is valid for 1 year. The e-mail includes a PDF file 
with the results and the issue date (datum afgifte). The mvv must be applied for within 1 year of the issue date. Is the 
date of issue more than 1 year ago? Then the foreign national has to retake the examination. 
 
Sending documentary evidence 
If you send the application, you should enclose a certified copy of the requested diplomas, certificates and/or lists of 
marks. A certified copy contains a statement that the contents of the copy correspond with the original. A copy of the 
civic integration examination does not have to be certified. This statement must have been signed by a person (from an 
institution) who is authorised to do so. The statement must also contain: the name of this person, a date and a stamp of 
the school (or the municipality, the notary’s office). A copy of a diploma may only be certified by the relevant 
educational institution. If it concerns a diploma that has not been issued in the Netherlands, the diploma or certificate 
must bear an apostille stamp. 
 
The foreign national is exempt from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 The foreign national is younger than 18 years old, or has reached the statutory pensionable age 
 
 The foreign national lived in the Netherlands for at least eight years during your school age (from the 
age of five until the end of the school year in which you reached the age of sixteen)  
The foreign national must have been registered in the municipal personal records database during the above 
period. 
 
 The foreign national will be staying with a foreign national who has a temporary asylum residence 
permit or a permanent asylum residence permit 
 
 The foreign national meets the conditions for residence in order to exercise family life with the 
referent on the basis of Article 8 ECHR 
 
 The foreigner national has fulfilled an integration requirement in another EU or EEA country in order to 
obtain long-term resident status 
 
*7606* 

 
  
 
2 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national wants to stay in the Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay in accordance 
with the Civic Integration Act (in Dutch: Wet Inburgering). Temporary purposes of stay according to the 
Civic Integration Act are: work on a self-employed basis; work as a highly skilled migrant; residence as a holder of 
an EU Blue Card holder; seasonal work; Intra Corporate Transferee (Directive 2014/66/EU); paid employment*; 
cross-border services; Researcher under Directive (EU) 2016/801; to gain work experience; work as non-
privileged military or non-military civilian staff; study; looking for work and carrying out work whether or not as 
an employee; exchange; medical treatment; temporary humanitarian grounds; waiting for a request based on  
article 17 of the Netherlands Nationality Act; for a purpose of stay other than that as mentioned previously here 
whereby, when the residence permit is granted, it is stated that the purpose of stay is temporary **. 
 
* Foreign nationals who want to work in the Netherlands as spiritual leaders must pass the basic civic integration 
examination abroad.  
** Article 3.5, fourth paragraph, Aliens Decree (in Dutch: Artikel 3.5, vierde lid, Vreemdelingenbesluit). 
 
 The foreign national wants to stay with a family member who has a residence permit in the 
Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay as mentioned above 
 
 The foreign national will only perform work as a contemplative, internal officer or board member of a 
religious or ideological organization. 
Please note! You can only tick this exemption if the foreign national applies for the purpose of residence ‘Spiritual 
counsellor’. 
Please enclose with the application an employer’s declaration containing a description of the nature of the work 
showing the religious or ideological nature of the activities. 
 
 The foreign national has Surinamese nationality and at least finished primary school in the Dutch 
language 
Please enclose the following additional pieces of evidence and documents with your application: 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname before 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a primary school (or higher) diploma or certificate and a statement from the Central Registry Office bearing 
an apostille and showing that the foreign national resided in Suriname at the time when he finished primary 
school or secondary school (see the explanation under ‘Foreign documents’ and ‘Language’ on page 2 of this 
form) 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname after 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a school diploma or certificate issued by the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur  
(Ministry of Education, Science and Culture), obtained in Suriname and showing that the foreign national at 
least finished primary school or a course in the Dutch language, or a certificate from the Examination Centre 
of the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur (Ministry of Education, Science and 
Culture) showing this. The diploma, certificate or statement must bear an apostille. 
If the foreign national attended a higher education course in the Netherlands, please also enclose: 
• The Dutch education diploma.  
If   the foreign national was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school 
 A copy of a historical overview from the Settlement Register in The Hague showing that the foreign national 
was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen; or 
A transcript from the (Municipal) Personal Records Database (BRP) showing that the foreign national was living in 
the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen. 
 
  

 
  
 
3 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national has one of the below diplomas, certificates or documents to which an exemption 
from the civic integration examination abroad applies 
Please enclose with the application a copy of one of the following additional pieces of evidence applicable to your 
situation: 
 The civic integration diploma of the Civic Integration Act; 
 the integration diploma, from before 13 September 2012 (amendment to the Integration Act); 
 A diploma or certificate of a Dutch university, higher professional education (HBO), senior secondary 
vocational education (MBO) (at least level 2), pre-university education (VWO), senior general secondary 
education (HAVO), junior general secondary education (MAVO) or pre-vocational secondary education 
(VMBO), for example.  The foreign national has such a diploma if the diploma states, for example: Higher 
Education and Research Act, Secondary Education Act 2020, Adult and Vocational Education Act or Part-Time 
Vocational Education Act. Education has to be given in Dutch; 
 A ‘Dutch as a Second Language’ state examination diploma (programme I or II); 
 A school diploma or certificate from Belgium or Suriname, obtained in Dutch-language education, with a 
passing mark for the subject of Dutch. It concerns the following diplomas: university degree, HBO, MBO (from 
level 2), VWO, HAVO, MAVO or VMBO, a comparable diploma or other document. The diploma or certificate 
must state the law on which it was issued. Also include a list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from Aruba, Curacao, or Sint Maarten, obtained in Dutch-language 
education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from the public bodies of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius or Saba, obtained in 
Dutch-language education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma from the European school of the European Baccalaureate. The foreign national must have finished 
the subject of Dutch as a first or second language. The foreign national must also have passed the subject of 
Dutch 
 Aan International Baccalaureate Middle Years Certificate or an International General Certificate of Secondary 
Education or an International Baccalaureate. In that case, you must have passed the subject of Dutch; 
 A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC).This shows 
that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and ‘writing’. 
This also shows that the foreign national has passed the component Social Orientation (in Dutch: 
Maatschappij Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 
with a score of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’. The foreigner national is then exempt from the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the 
civic integration exam abroad; and 
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the component Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that the foreign national has passed the Social Orientation component (in Dutch: Maatschappij 
Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 with a score 
of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001.  The foreign national is then 
exempted for the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the civic integration examination abroad;  
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the components Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
 A Civic Integration Certificate for Settled Migrants with level NT2 2 for the ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’ parts; 
 The document ‘Short Exemption Test’ referred to in Article 2.7(2) of the Civic Integration Decree as it read 
until 1 January 2013, issued by the Education Executive Agency (Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs or DUO); or 
The decision from the DUO stating that no civic integration programme is determined, because the foreign 
national passed the test as referred to in Article 5(4) of the Civic Integration (Newcomers) Act. 
 
  

 
  
 
4 
7606 - 07 
 
The foreign national wants to obtain exemption from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
 The foreign national relies on special individual circumstances 
Please enclose the following evidence and documents with the application: 
 means of evidence in which you show that it concerns special individual circumstances due to which the foreign 
national is not able to prepare sufficiently and pass (one or more parts of) the civic integration examination 
abroad. Any individual circumstance which, according to you, should give reason to exempt the foreign national 
from the examination, may be submitted. Explain the details of the personal situation of the foreign national, 
such as: the unavailability of suitable course material, the level of education, the special need of care for one or 
more family members, the individual problems that the foreign national is experiencing because of the situation 
in the country of origin or permanent residence, etc.; and 
 means of evidence which shows that the foreign national has made such efforts that could reasonably, be 
required in order to pass the civic integration examination abroad or to prepare for it. Enclose also the results 
of the taken exams. The results for each part of the civic integration examination could give an indication of the 
delivered efforts; and 
 a copy of the medical questionnaire that is completed and signed by a doctor, who is appointed by the Dutch 
representation in the country of origin, when you want to put forward the medical situation of the foreign 
national as special individual circumstances. The statement of the counselor may not be older than six months 
upon submitting the MVV application. 
Explanation: If the foreign national is obstructed from taking the civic integration examination abroad due to 
medical reasons (physical/ psychological), the foreign national must undergo a medical examination. This 
medical examination is carried out by a doctor who is appointed by the Dutch representation in the country of 
origin. The foreign national must give the physician permission to submit the completed medical questionnaire. 
 
 
Processing of personal data  
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 

 
  
 
1 
7571-2025/4 
                            
 
 
Application for the purpose of residence of 'employment as 
essential start-up personnel' (foreign national) - PILOT 
Dit formulier is ook in het Nederlands beschikbaar op ind.nl/formulieren. 
 
Please check that you have the latest version of this form on ind.nl/en/forms. 
Read the explanation before you start to fill out the form. 
 
For whom is this form intended? 
If you want to stay in the Netherlands for the purpose of performing work for a young, innovative company (start-up 
company), you use this form to apply for a residence permit. If you meet the conditions, you will receive a residence 
permit for the purpose of residence of employment as essential start-up personnel. This regulation for essential start-
up personnel is introduced as a pilot with a duration of 4 years. 
 
More information on this pilot and the start-up companies that can make use of the regulation are available at 
www.ind.nl.  
 
Incidentally, you do not have to submit the application for employment as essential start-up personnel yourself. You 
can also leave that to the start-up company (the sponsor). If the sponsor is going to apply on your behalf, he should 
use a different form for that purpose, namely: Application for the purpose of residence of 'employment as essential 
start-up staff personnel' (sponsor) - PILOT.   
 
Renewal of the residence permit 
If you, as an essential start-up employee, want to apply for renewal of your residence permit, please use the form: 
Application for extension of residence permit for work-related purposes of residence (foreign national).  
 
Your family members 
You may come to the Netherlands together with family members. You or the family member who wants to stay with 
you must apply for the residence permit. An application for the purpose of residence of 'family members and relatives’ 
should be used for this purpose.  
 
How do you fill out this form? 
This form comprises different appendices; which appendices you need to fill out depends on your own situation. Only 
submit your application once you have completed filling out this form, signed and you have gathered all the requested 
documents and evidence. If your application is incomplete, the IND will be unable to assess your application properly. 
 
Processing of personal data 
The IND records your data in the IND systems to be able to carry out legal tasks. The IND uses and secures your 
personal data carefully and on the basis of the requirements of the privacy legislation. Read how the IND handles your 
personal data on ind.nl/en/privacy. 
 
Would you like more information? 
Then visit the IND website at www.ind.nl. You can also contact the IND by telephone via 088 043 04 30 (normal 
charges apply). From abroad you can call +31 88 043 04 30. 
*7571* 

 
  
 
2 
7571-2025/4 
1 What is your situation 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation and follow the instructions 
 
1. You have a valid residence permit in the Netherlands and you want to change the residence 
permit to a different purpose of residence. 
 You want to submit an application for changing the purpose of residence of your residence permit 
 
2. You are in the Netherlands and you want a residence permit. You are a national of one of the 
following countries: Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States of America, South 
Korea, Monaco, Vatican City, the United Kingdom, the EU/EEA countries or Switzerland. 
 You want to submit an application for a regular residence permit 
 
3. You are abroad and your nationality is one whereby you will need a Regular Provisional 
Residence Permit (MVV) (a nationality other than the nationalities mentioned under 2). 
A Regular Provisional Residence Permit (MVV) is a visa with which you can enter the Netherlands for a stay 
of longer than 90 days. Having entered the Netherlands with a valid Regular Provisional Residence Permit 
(MVV) you can be issued with a residence permit. 
 You cannot use this form. You must apply for an mvv at the Dutch representation abroad. The forms for 
this can be found on the IND website. 
 
4. You are in the Netherlands and you want to submit an application. Your nationality is one 
whereby you will need a Regular Provisional Residence Permit (MVV) (a nationality other than 
the nationalities mentioned under 2). You will usually need a Regular Provisional Residence 
Permit (MVV) in order to apply for residence in the Netherlands. In the appendix ‘Exemption 
from requirement for Regular Provisional Permit and special situations’, you can read what an 
MVV is and in which cases an MVV is not necessary. This appendix also states which means of 
proof you must enclose with the application. 
 You want to submit an application for a residence permit (without a Regular Provisional Residence Permit 
(MVV): 
>  Please indicate below which situation applies. 
You are applying for an exemption from the requirement to apply for a regular provisional residence permit 
because: 
 your residence permit has expired. 
 you are residing as a family member with someone who had a privileged status. 
 you worked on a Dutch seagoing vessel or in a mining installation on the continental shelf for 7 years 
or longer.  
 you were born in the Netherlands, is 12 years of age or younger and did not move the location of 
principal residence outside the Netherlands.  
 you are a minor child of a person who has a residence permit on temporary humanitarian grounds in 
connection with human trafficking or honour-related violence or domestic violence. 
 you are unable to depart from the Netherlands. 
 you are a minor child and actually resided in the Netherlands for at least three years. 
 you are unable to depart from the Netherlands because this is contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR. 
 you are a victim of human trafficking and he/she is either unwilling or unable to file a report about this 
or collaborate in the criminal detection and prosecution of the human trafficker in connection with a 
serious threat and/or a medical or physical limitation. 
 you are the spouse, (registered) partner or the minor child of the foreign national who possesses a 
residence permit for research within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 issued by another 
Member State of the European Union. 
 you do not have a residence permit and you have fallen victim to (or might fall victim to) honour-
related violence or domestic violence. 
 you do not have a residence permit and you are a victim of or witness reporting human trafficking. 
You cannot or will not file a report or collaborate in another way with the criminal investigation and 
prosecution of the human trafficker because of important reasons. 
 you want to reside with your Dutch minor child of whom you are the only carer parent. 
 you qualify for a residence permit with the purpose of residence ‘cross-border service provision’. 

 
  
 
3 
7571-2025/4 
 for health reasons, you are unable to apply for a regular provisional residence permit in the country of 
origin. 
 you are a victim of or witness reporting human trafficking. 
 you are a family member of an under-age foreign national who holds a residence permit on ’temporary 
humanitarian grounds’ due to a family supervision order by the juvenile court. 
 you are unable to leave the Netherlands because this is contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR 
 other: special and individual circumstances apply to you and you cannot return to the country of origin 
to apply for an MVV. 
 
2 Tuberculosis 
 
You want to apply for a residence permit in the Netherlands. You may need to undergo an examination and 
treatment for tuberculosis (TB). This depends on the situation. 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you have a valid residence permit in the Netherlands.  
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you are a national of one of the countries listed in the 
appendix ‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’. 
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you were born in the Netherlands and you have not 
changed the location of your principal place of residence to outside the Netherlands since your birth. 
You have a different nationality and: 
 have already undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. Enclose an original and recent ‘TB test referral form’ 
with the application. This form is the proof that you have undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. The form 
may not be more than 6 months old. 
 have not yet undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. Then you should complete the Appendix Declaration 
of intent to undergo a TB test’ and send this together with the application. You must sign this appendix 
yourself. 
If you are in the Netherlands, then you should make an appointment for the test with the Municipal Health 
Service (GGD) in the region where you live or where you will be living (for further information, visit the website 
www.ggd.nl). Take the appendix ‘TB test referral form’ with you to the Municipal Health Service (GGD). The 
Municipal Health Service (GGD) will then send the form to the IND. 
 
3 Means of evidence 
 
Requirements of foreign means of evidence 
You must gather together the means of evidence before submitting your application. You may be required to 
submit foreign means of evidence together with this application, for example a foreign marriage certificate. 
Your personal situation and the purpose of residence determine which foreign means of evidence you will 
need to include. 
 
Language 
All foreign means of evidence must be compiled in Dutch, English, French or German. Is this not the case? 
Then you must have the means of evidence translated by a translator who has been sworn in by a District 
Court. Submit (a copy of) the translation and (a copy of) the means of evidence together with the application 
form. If you have the means of evidence translated in a foreign country and therefore not by a translator 
who has been sworn in by a District Court, then you are required to have the translation legalised or to have 
an apostille stamp provided by the competent authorities in the country of issue. 
 
  

 
  
 
4 
7571-2025/4 
Official foreign means of evidence 
Official foreign means of evidence must be issued and legalised by the competent authorities of the country 
that issued the means of evidence. In some countries the document must then also be legalized by the Dutch 
embassy or the Dutch consulate in the country in question. In ‘apostille countries’ an apostille, issued by the 
competent local authorities, is sufficient. If no Dutch embassy or consulate is available in that country, the 
document must be legalised by the Dutch embassy or consulate responsible for that country. Official foreign 
means of evidence include, for example, birth certificates and marriage certificates. Having these means of 
evidence legalised or provided with an apostille stamp can take a long time. You should start several months 
in advance of submitting your application with having documents legalised or provided with an apostille 
stamp in the country of origin. For more information about legalisation or apostille requirements for 
documents per country and any exceptions to these requirements, you can telephone the ‘Public Information 
Service’, telephone number 1400. You can also visit the website www.rijksoverheid.nl. 
 
Financial means of evidence 
Financial means of evidence must be verified by an authorised independent external expert affiliated with a 
relevant professional body. 
 
Special facts and circumstances 
If you think special facts and circumstances may apply, that have to be considered when assessing your 
application, you have to provide a written declaration. You have to substantiate this declaration with as many 
(official) means of evidence as possible. 
 
If you submit special circumstances in the context of Article 3.6ba, first paragraph, of the Aliens Decree, you 
must only submit these circumstances if this concerns your first application submitted in the Netherlands. 
 
 Employment as essential start-up personnel (478) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• the completed and signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor (employment)’; 
• an employment contract indicating the nature of the work and the salary; 
• a contract signed by you and the start-up company indicating the form, the percentage, and the 
conditions of the employee participation and the associated participation scheme; 
• an anonymised printout of the collective payroll statement that is not older than 3 months at the time 
the application is assessed; 
• evidence of the employee participation.  
There are several options: 
Shares: 
▪ the company's Articles of Association; 
▪ the Shareholders' Agreement; and 
▪ the Shareholders' register. 
Share options: 
▪ the company's articles of association; and 
▪ option agreement. 
Depositary receipts for shares held in a Trust Office Foundation: 
▪ Articles of Association of the company that has certified shares; 
▪ Articles of Association of the Trust Office Foundation 
▪ Trust Conditions of the Trust Office Foundation; and 
▪ Register of the depositary receipt holders. 
Share in the profits of a limited partnership: 
▪ Partnership Agreement. 
• evidence that the company is a start-up and innovative company with scalable business activities (see 
also section 5.8 of this form): 
a. With regard to the organisation of the company: 
▪ CVs of its incorporators, management board members or executive directors, and the essential 
personnel; 
▪ diplomas and references of its incorporators, management board members or executive directors, 
and the essential personnel, or other proof of knowledge and/or competencies; 
▪ proof of registration of the company in the Commercial Register of the Chamber of Commerce. 
 
 
 

 
  
 
5 
7571-2025/4 
 
b. With regard to the growth of the company*: 
▪ company documentation, e.g., a business plan, demonstrating: 
o that the company is innovative and shapes scalable business activities; 
o what activities or steps the company is taking to achieve growth;  
o which essential role the prospective employee will play within the company in order to achieve 
growth. 
c. With regard to the financing of the company**: 
▪ the latest financial statements, including (opening) balance sheet, P&L account, and notes; 
▪ agreements with/guarantees by financiers and/or audit opinions and/or bank statements and 
substantiating financial forecasts consisting of projected balance sheets, P&L accounts, and cash 
flow statements; 
▪ VAT, corporation tax, and income tax returns and decisions 
▪ if available and applicable: term sheets and/or letters of intent from financiers for future financing 
rounds if mentioned in the financial projections. 
 
* Please note! Suppose you have an ongoing agreement with a facilitator, or the supervision 
agreement expired no more than 18 months ago, and the facilitator is still demonstrably and actively 
involved in your start-up company. In that case, you only need to provide company documentation that 
demonstrates the essential role that the prospective staff member will play within the company to 
achieve growth. Company documentation demonstrating that the company is innovative with scalable 
business activities and what steps the company is taking to achieve growth do not need to be attached.  
 
** Please note! Suppose you can prove that you have a financing agreement of at least € 100,000 with 
an investor or a Dutch bank. In that case, you do not have to submit any evidence about the financing 
of the company. 
 
4 Biometric information, Antecedents certificate appendix and signature 
 
• You must have your fingerprints and facial image (passport photo) taken to determine your identity. 
The biometric information is also required to create a residence permit. For the residence permit the 
IND also needs a signature. See the appendix Fingerprints, passport photo and signature. 
• Fill out the Antecedents certificate appendix and submit this appendix together with your application. 
 
5 Details of the start-up company                                       Write in block letters 
 
5.1 Company name  
 
5.2 Name of contact person  
 
 
5.3 Correspondence address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
5.4 Telephone number            
 
 
5.5 
 
E-mail 
    
        
 

 
  
 
6 
7571-2025/4 
5.6 Chamber of Commerce number 
 
         
 
5.7 Has the start-up entrepreneur 
made use of the start-up 
regulation in the past?  
(This is the case if the 
entrepreneur applied for and 
received a residence permit for 
the purpose of residence ‘Start-
up’ working on a self-employed 
basis). 
 Yes 
 
 
 
 
 No 
 
If so, fill in the V-number of the start-up entrepreneur 
below: 
 
           
 
 
 
5.8 Was the first residence permit 
for employment as essential 
start-up personnel issued for 
this company in the preceding 
three-year period? 
 
 Yes. The means of proof to demonstrate that the company is a start-
up and innovative company with scalable business activities do not 
need to be provided with the application, except for company 
documentation that shows the essential role the prospective 
employee will play within the company to achieve growth (see 
section 4 Means of evidence). 
 No.  
 
6 Your personal details (essential start-up employee) 
   
6.1  Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
6.2 Sex 
 
 Male        
 Female 
 
6.3 Day of birth  
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
6.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
6.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
6.6 Nationality  
 
6.7 Civil status 
 unmarried (single or living together) 
 married 
 registered partnership 
 divorced 
 widow/widower  
 
  

 
  
 
7 
7571-2025/4 
6.8 Home address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
6.9 Telephone number            
 
 
 
6.10 
 
 
E-mail 
    
        
 
 
6.11 Position of the start-up staff 
member 
 
 
6.12 Gross monthly salary (Excluding 
vacation pay) 
€  
 
   
7 Location where the residence permit is collected 
 
Please indicate below the IND Desk where you will collect the residence permit: 
 
 
 Amsterdam  Goes  ’s-Hertogenbosch (Den Bosch)  Den Haag 
 
 Maastricht  Zwolle 
  
 
You can also collect his residence permit at an Expatcenter (NB. Some Expatcenters charge a fee for this 
service. To collect the residence permit you must make an appointment): 
 
 
 Amsterdam  Den Haag  Eindhoven  Enschede 
 
 Goes  Groningen   Maastricht   Rotterdam  
 
 Utrecht   Wageningen 
  
 
8 Identification 
 
Please enclose a copy of your passport (only the identity details and stamped pages). Do not copy empty 
pages. 
 
  

 
  
 
8 
7571-2025/4 
9 Signing 
 
Signing this form will bring you rights and obligations. If you do not know what these rights and obligations 
are, then visit the website www.ind.nl. 
 
✓ I declare I have completed this form truthfully.  
✓ I know that the personal details supplied will be processed in connection with the Aliens Act 2000 and 
will be passed on to authorities that need these personal details for that purpose.  
✓ I will pass on any changes to my situation, which will affect my right of residence, without delay to the 
IND. I am aware that if I do not do this, it may affect my right of residence as foreign national. I know 
that I may incur an administrative fine.  
✓ I know what my rights and obligations are.  
✓ I have enclosed the signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor’. 
  
9.1 I submit this form and (number) of appendices/documents in evidence. 
 
          
 
9.2 
 
Name 
 
 
 
9.3 Place and date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
 
9.4 
 
 
Handtekening 
 
 
 
 
 
10 Submitting the application and payment 
 
You have gathered all the means of evidence necessary for the application. 
Proceed to the appendix ‘Submitting and paying for the application (by the foreign national)’. 
 