
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: Spouse (Inside NL).pdf
PAGES: 23
==================================================



Power of attorney 
 
for the application of a startup visa 
 
 
 
The undersigned 
[Name], born in [town and country] on [dd-mm-yyyy], holder of a valid 
[country] passport with number [.........] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Startup visa applicant’ 
hereby authorizes and grants full power of attorney to 
[Full legal name of facilitator company], registered under the laws of the 
Netherlands, with its statutory seat and business address at [full address], and 
registered at the Dutch Chamber of Commerce (KVK), number [KVK number], 
duly represented by [representative 1], [representative 2], [representative 3] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Facilitator’. 
With respect to any and all legal acts regarding the process of a startup visa 
application in the Netherlands the Facilitator legally represents the Startup 
visa applicant with respect to any and all legal acts. 
This power of attorney shall be governed exclusively by the laws of the 
Netherlands. 
 
 
 
Date 
Name 
Signature 
 
 

 
7601-03 
 
 
 
Appendix Antecedents Certificate 
 
Who should complete this appendix? 
Pursuant to Articles 3.77, paragraph 11 and 3.86, paragraph 18 of the Aliens Decree, every foreign national aged 12 
years or older must complete this appendix. 
Please note! This statement consists of 2 pages. You must complete both pages. 
 
  
1    Declaration of the foreign national  
  
 On this form you fill in whether you have ever committed a crime or a criminal offence. These are crimes 
committed in the Netherlands and criminal offences committed outside the Netherlands. You must answer the 
questions with Yes or No. Not completing the form truthfully or failing to report is a criminal offence. This can lead 
to a sanction. Your answers may have consequences for your application or for a residence permit that you have 
previously received. 
  
 > Please tick the applicable situation 
  
 Are you currently being prosecuted for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or for 
committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 Yes  No 
  
Have you ever been sentenced to a fine, community service, penalty order by a public 
prosecutor, custodial measure or imprisonment or have you accepted an out-of-court 
settlement for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or have you ever been convicted 
of committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 
 No 
  
Have you ever committed a crime, or have you been involved in a crime as referred to in 
Article 1F of the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees? Like a murder, war crime, 
genocide, terrorist crime or crimes against humanity? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you received an entry ban from one of the countries of the EU/EEA or Switzerland?*  
Or a measure similar to an entry ban? 
 
* This is a ban on travel to the Netherlands, the EU / EEA or Switzerland. 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you submitted incorrect data during earlier residence procedures in the 
Netherlands?  
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
  
Have you ever stayed illegally in the Netherlands? 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
    
 > Have you ticked Yes for one or more questions? Then explain why. 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
7601-03 
2 Signature of the foreign national   
 
 I have completed this form truthfully. 
 I know that the IND can reject my application or withdraw my residence permit if I have ever been 
convicted of committing a crime. 
 If something changes in my situation through which my statements on this form are no longer correct, I 
will notify the IND as soon as possible. I do this within four weeks after the change in my situation. 
  
2.1 V-number (if known) 
 
           
 
2.2 Name 
 
 
2.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
    
    
       
   
   
2.4 Place and date  Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
 
 
2.5 
 
 
 
Signature  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 

 
1 
7525-2025/4 
 
 
 
Application for the purpose of residence of ‘family and 
relatives’ (foreign national) 
 
Read the explanation before you start to fill out the form. 
 
For whom is this form intended? 
You can only use this form if you are a foreign national. A foreign national is someone who wants to stay in the 
Netherlands, for example with a family member. This family member is your sponsor. Your sponsor has Dutch 
nationality or a Dutch residence permit and lives in the Netherlands. If you are a sponsor and you want to submit an 
application for a foreign national, you can use one of the following forms: 
• ‘Application residence permit: residence with married or registered partner. Application by sponsor’.  
• ‘Application residence permit: residence with unmarried partner. Application by sponsor’. 
• ‘Application form for a stay with the purpose of residence ‘family and relatives’ for the sponsor (7518). 
 
You can submit the application yourself if you are 12 years or older. If you want to submit an application for your minor 
child, you must have parental authority over your child. 
 
You can submit an application for a stay in the Netherlands with this form on grounds of one of the following purposes of 
residence: 
• stay with spouse or (registered) partner; 
• stay with a parent; 
• stay as foreign adoptive child or foster child; 
• stay with a minor who holds an asylum permit; 
• stay with the holder of a medical residence permit;  
• stay with a family member who holds a residence permit on ‘temporary humanitarian grounds’ because he is in the 
terminal phase of an illness;  
• stay with a minor foreign national who holds a   'humanitarian temporary' or 'humanitarian non-temporary' residence 
permit because he has been put under supervision order by the juvenile court; or 
• stay in order to carry out family life on grounds of Article 8 of the ECHR. 
 
Further verification against other policy. During the assessment of your application, the IND can also verify whether you 
are eligible for a residence permit for another purpose. It concerns the following purposes: 
• carrying out private life on grounds of Article 8 of the ECHR 
• victim of human trafficking 
• being unable to depart from the Netherlands through no fault of one’s own 
• medical treatment 
• residence on grounds of other humanitarian reasons 
• suspension of departure under Article 64 of the Aliens Act 
If you are of the opinion that you also qualify for a residence permit on the basis of one of these purposes, please 
substantiate this with as many relevant documents as possible. Submit a copy of these documents together with this 
form. 
 
Do you already have a residence permit? Make sure that the IND receives this application in time. Therefore submit the 
application before the validity of your current residence permit expires. Please note! Do not submit the application later 
than 4 weeks after the expiry date of the residence permit. This is important to prevent encountering a residence gap. A 
residence gap is an interruption in your residence. This has consequences for any subsequent procedures. 
 
*7525* 

 
2 
7525-2025/4 
How do you fill out this form? 
This form comprises different appendices. Which appendices you need to fill out depends on your own situation. Only 
submit your application once you have completed filling out this form, signed and you have gathered all the requested 
documents and evidence. If your application is incomplete, the IND will be unable to assess your application properly. 
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On 
www.ind.nl y   ou can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
Would you like more information? 
Then visit the IND website at www.ind.nl. You can also contact the IND by telephone via 088 043 04 30 (normal charges 
apply). From abroad you can call +31 88 043 04 30. 
 
1 What is your situation 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation and follow the instructions 
 
1. You have a valid residence permit in the Netherlands and you want to change the residence 
permit to a different purpose of residence. 
 You want to submit an application for changing the purpose of residence of your residence permit 
 
2. You are in the Netherlands and you want a residence permit. You are a national of one of the 
following countries: Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the United States of America, South 
Korea, Monaco, Vatican City, the United Kingdom, the EU/EEA countries or Switzerland. 
 You want to submit an application for a regular residence permit 
 
3. You are abroad and your nationality is one whereby you will need a Regular Provisional 
Residence Permit (MVV) (a nationality other than the nationalities mentioned under 2). 
A Regular Provisional Residence Permit (MVV) is a visa with which you can enter the Netherlands for a stay 
of longer than 90 days. Having entered the Netherlands with a valid Regular Provisional Residence Permit 
(MVV) you can be issued with a residence permit. 
 You cannot use this form. You must apply for an mvv at the Dutch representation abroad. The forms for 
this can be found on the IND website. 
 
4. You are in the Netherlands and you want to submit an application. Your nationality is one 
whereby you will need a Regular Provisional Residence Permit (MVV) (a nationality other than 
the nationalities mentioned under 2). You will usually need a Regular Provisional Residence 
Permit (MVV) in order to apply for residence in the Netherlands. In the appendix ‘Exemption 
from requirement for Regular Provisional Permit and special situations’, you can read what an 
MVV is and in which cases an MVV is not necessary. This appendix also states which means of 
proof you must enclose with the application. 
 You want to submit an application for a residence permit (without a Regular Provisional Residence Permit 
(MVV): 
>  Please indicate below which situation applies. 
You are applying for an exemption from the requirement to apply for a regular provisional residence permit 
because: 
 your residence permit has expired. 
 you are the family member of a holder of a European Blue Card who has used long-term mobility and 
you will reside with the holder of the European Blue Card. 
 you are residing as a family member with someone who had a privileged status. 
 you worked on a Dutch seagoing vessel or in a mining installation on the continental shelf for 7 years 
or longer.  
 you were born in the Netherlands, is 12 years of age or younger and did not move the location of 
principal residence outside the Netherlands.  

 
3 
7525-2025/4 
 you are a minor child of a person who has a residence permit on temporary humanitarian grounds in 
connection with human trafficking or honour-related violence or domestic violence. 
 you are unable to depart from the Netherlands. 
 you are a minor child and actually resided in the Netherlands for at least three years. 
 you are a victim of human trafficking and you are either unwilling or unable to file a report about this 
or collaborate in the criminal detection and prosecution of the human trafficker in connection with a 
serious threat and/or a medical or physical limitation. 
 you are the spouse, (registered) partner or the minor child of the foreign national who possesses a 
residence permit for research within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 issued by another 
Member State of the European Union. 
 you do not have a residence permit and you have fallen victim to (or might fall victim to) honour-
related violence or domestic violence. 
 you do not have a residence permit and you are a victim of or witness reporting human trafficking. 
You cannot or will not file a report or collaborate in another way with the criminal investigation and 
prosecution of the human trafficker because of important reasons. 
 you want to reside with your Dutch minor child of whom you are the only carer parent. 
 you qualify for a residence permit with the purpose of residence ‘cross-border service provision’. 
 for health reasons, you are unable to apply for a regular provisional residence permit in the country of 
origin. 
 you are a victim of or witness reporting human trafficking. 
 you are a family member of a    minor foreign national who holds a residence permit on ’temporary 
humanitarian grounds’ or ‘non-temporary humanitarian grounds’ because he has  been put under 
supervision by the juvenile court. 
 you are unable to leave the Netherlands because this is contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR. 
 other: special and individual circumstances apply to you and you cannot return to the country of origin 
to apply for an MVV. 
 
2 Tuberculosis 
 
You want to apply for a residence permit in the Netherlands. You may need to undergo an examination and 
treatment for tuberculosis (TB). This depends on the situation. 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you have a valid residence permit in the Netherlands.  
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you are a national of one of the countries listed in the 
appendix ‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’. 
 You do not need to undergo a TB test because you were born in the Netherlands and you have not 
changed the location of your principal place of residence to outside the Netherlands since your birth. 
You have a different nationality and: 
 have already undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. Enclose an original and recent ‘TB test referral form’ 
with the application. This form is the proof that you have undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. 
The form 
may not be more than 6 months old. 
 have not yet undergone a TB test in the Netherlands. Then you should complete the Appendix Declaration 
of intent to undergo a TB test’ and send this together with the application. You must sign this appendix 
yourself. 
If you are in the Netherlands, then you should make an appointment for the test with the Municipal Health 
Service (GGD) in the region where you live or where you will be living (for further information, visit the website 
www.ggd.nl
). Take the appendix ‘
TB test referral form’ with you to the Municipal Health Service (GGD). The 
Municipal Health Service (GGD) will then send the form to the IND. 
 
  

 
4 
7525-2025/4 
3 Means of evidence 
 
Requirements of foreign means of evidence 
You must gather together the means of evidence before submitting your application. You may be required to 
submit foreign means of evidence together with this application, for example a foreign marriage certificate. 
Your personal situation and the purpose of residence determine which foreign proof of income you will need to 
include. 
 
Language 
All foreign means of evidence must be compiled in Dutch, English, French or German. Is this not the case? 
Then you must have the means of evidence translated by a translator who has been sworn in by a District 
Court. Submit (a copy of) the translation and (a copy of) the means of evidence together with the application 
form. If you have the means of evidence translated in a foreign country and therefore not by a translator who 
has been sworn in by a District Court, then you are required to have the translation legalised or to have an 
apostille stamp/authentication stamp provided by the competent authorities in the country of issue. 
 
Official means of evidence 
Official foreign means of evidence must be issued and legalised by the competent authorities of the country 
that issued the means of evidence. In some countries the document must then also be legalized by the Dutch 
embassy or the Dutch consulate in the country in question. In ‘apostille countries’ an apostille, issued by the 
competent local authorities, is sufficient. If no Dutch embassy or consulate is available in that country, the 
document must be legalised by the Dutch embassy or consulate responsible for that country. Official foreign 
means of evidence include, for example, birth certificates and marriage certificates. Having these means of 
evidence legalised or provided with an apostille stamp can take a long time. You should start several months in 
advance of submitting your application with having documents legalised or provided with an apostille stamp in 
the country of origin. For more information about legalisation or apostille requirements for documents per 
country and any exceptions to these requirements, you can telephone the ‘Public Information Service’, 
telephone number 1400. You can also visit the website 
www.rijksoverheid.nl. 
 
Special facts and circumstances 
If you think special facts and circumstances may apply, that have to be considered when assessing your 
application, you have to provide a written declaration. You have to substantiate this declaration with as many 
(official) means of evidence as possible. 
 
If you submit special circumstances in the context of Article 3.6ba, first paragraph, of the Aliens Decree, you 
must only submit these circumstances if this concerns your first application submitted in the Netherlands. 
 
  
Choose the family member with whom you want to stay. You can only choose one purpose of residence. 
If you choose more than one purpose then (possibly) your application will be no longer valid. If you are in 
doubt about your purpose of residence then contact the IND. Do not submit your application if you are not sure 
whether you comply with the conditions. Visit the website www.ind.nl f  or more information about your purpose 
of residence. 
 
 
Your spouse or registered partner 
 
 You are married to the sponsor or you have a registered partnership with the sponsor. (320–
340) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application.  
If this involves a marriage, then you must also submit: 
• a copy of the marriage certificate.  
If this involves a registered partnership, then you should also submit:  
• a copy of the deed of registered partnership. 
 
Is your marriage or registered partnership registered with the municipality (BRP) in the Netherlands? If so, you 
do not have to enclose a copy of a legalised certificate. 
 

 
  
 
 
7623 - 04 
 
 
 
Appendix Declaration by sponsor (family and relatives) 
Explanation 
If you apply for residence for a family member to stay with you in the Netherlands, you are the sponsor. This comes 
with responsibilities. As a sponsor, you must ensure that your family member meets the conditions for a residence 
permit. Not only when applying for a residence permit, but also afterwards. Is your family member no longer entitled 
to reside in the Netherlands? Then you must ensure that your family member leaves the Netherlands. 
 
Please note! You only complete this statement for your own family members. Are you applying for a child that is not 
your own child, but that of your spouse/partner? In that case, your spouse/partner must complete this statement for 
the child. 
 
Report changes 
Are there any changes in your situation, which could have any effect on the residence permit? If so, you are obliged to 
report these changes to the IND within 4 weeks. The IND refers to this as the obligation to provide information. Please 
use the ‘Notification form for family members and relatives’, which you can download from www.ind.nl
. The form lists 
the changes you need to report. 
 
Retain records 
You are obliged to collect and store any relevant information about your family member. You can find the data you are 
obliged to store in the Aliens Regulations. You must store this documentary evidence for 5 years after you are no 
longer the sponsor of the foreign national. The IND refers to this as the duty to keep and retain records. The IND can 
request data from you at any time. In this way the IND checks whether you comply with this obligation. 
   
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read 
how the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
1        Details of sponsor                                                                        Write in block letters 
 
1.1 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
1.2 
 
Sex 
 
 Male  
 Female 
 
1.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
  

 
  
 
1 
7606 - 07 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix Civic integration examination abroad 
 
A foreign national must sit the civic integration examination abroad. 
 
In some cases, a foreign national may be exempted based on age, diplomas, certificates or other documents. The 
foreign national can also be eligible for exemption if special individual circumstances such as age, level of education, 
financial situation or medical situation gives rise thereto. The whole personal situation of the foreign national and all the 
circumstances put forward plus the keenness shown to want to pass the examination and the necessary efforts made in 
that respect, are considered in the evaluation whether the foreign national can be exempted from the obligation to pass 
the examination. Tick the situation that applies to the foreign national and enclose the requested documents with the 
application. 
 
Period of validity of completed examination 
The civic integration examination abroad consists of 3 exam components: Knowledge of Dutch Society (in Dutch: Kennis 
Nederlandse Samenleving, Speaking skills and Reading skills.. The examination is successfully completed when the 
foreign national has passed all 3 parts. When all parts have been passed, DUO sends the results of the completed 
examination by e-mail. The completed civic integration examination is valid for 1 year. The e-mail includes a PDF file 
with the results and the issue date (datum afgifte). The mvv must be applied for within 1 year of the issue date. Is the 
date of issue more than 1 year ago? Then the foreign national has to retake the examination. 
 
Sending documentary evidence 
If you send the application, you should enclose a certified copy of the requested diplomas, certificates and/or lists of 
marks. A certified copy contains a statement that the contents of the copy correspond with the original. A copy of the 
civic integration examination does not have to be certified. This statement must have been signed by a person (from an 
institution) who is authorised to do so. The statement must also contain: the name of this person, a date and a stamp of 
the school (or the municipality, the notary’s office). A copy of a diploma may only be certified by the relevant 
educational institution. If it concerns a diploma that has not been issued in the Netherlands, the diploma or certificate 
must bear an apostille stamp. 
 
The foreign national is exempt from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 The foreign national is younger than 18 years old, or has reached the statutory pensionable age 
 
 The foreign national lived in the Netherlands for at least eight years during your school age (from the 
age of five until the end of the school year in which you reached the age of sixteen)  
The foreign national must have been registered in the municipal personal records database during the above 
period. 
 
 The foreign national will be staying with a foreign national who has a temporary asylum residence 
permit or a permanent asylum residence permit 
 
 The foreign national meets the conditions for residence in order to exercise family life with the 
referent on the basis of Article 8 ECHR 
 
 The foreigner national has fulfilled an integration requirement in another EU or EEA country in order to 
obtain long-term resident status 
 
*7606* 

 
  
 
2 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national wants to stay in the Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay in accordance 
with the Civic Integration Act (in Dutch: Wet Inburgering). Temporary purposes of stay according to the 
Civic Integration Act are: work on a self-employed basis; work as a highly skilled migrant; residence as a holder of 
an EU Blue Card holder; seasonal work; Intra Corporate Transferee (Directive 2014/66/EU); paid employment*; 
cross-border services; Researcher under Directive (EU) 2016/801; to gain work experience; work as non-
privileged military or non-military civilian staff; study; looking for work and carrying out work whether or not as 
an employee; exchange; medical treatment; temporary humanitarian grounds; waiting for a request based on  
article 17 of the Netherlands Nationality Act; for a purpose of stay other than that as mentioned previously here 
whereby, when the residence permit is granted, it is stated that the purpose of stay is temporary **. 
 
* Foreign nationals who want to work in the Netherlands as spiritual leaders must pass the basic civic integration 
examination abroad.  
** Article 3.5, fourth paragraph, Aliens Decree (in Dutch: Artikel 3.5, vierde lid, Vreemdelingenbesluit). 
 
 The foreign national wants to stay with a family member who has a residence permit in the 
Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay as mentioned above 
 
 The foreign national will only perform work as a contemplative, internal officer or board member of a 
religious or ideological organization. 
Please note! You can only tick this exemption if the foreign national applies for the purpose of residence ‘Spiritual 
counsellor’. 
Please enclose with the application an employer’s declaration containing a description of the nature of the work 
showing the religious or ideological nature of the activities. 
 
 The foreign national has Surinamese nationality and at least finished primary school in the Dutch 
language 
Please enclose the following additional pieces of evidence and documents with your application: 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname before 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a primary school (or higher) diploma or certificate and a statement from the Central Registry Office bearing 
an apostille and showing that the foreign national resided in Suriname at the time when he finished primary 
school or secondary school (see the explanation under ‘Foreign documents’ and ‘Language’ on page 2 of this 
form) 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname after 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a school diploma or certificate issued by the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur  
(Ministry of Education, Science and Culture), obtained in Suriname and showing that the foreign national at 
least finished primary school or a course in the Dutch language, or a certificate from the Examination Centre 
of the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur (Ministry of Education, Science and 
Culture) showing this. The diploma, certificate or statement must bear an apostille. 
If the foreign national attended a higher education course in the Netherlands, please also enclose: 
• The Dutch education diploma.  
If   the foreign national was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school 
 A copy of a historical overview from the Settlement Register in The Hague showing that the foreign national 
was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen; or 
A transcript from the (Municipal) Personal Records Database (BRP) showing that the foreign national was living in 
the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen. 
 
  

 
  
 
3 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national has one of the below diplomas, certificates or documents to which an exemption 
from the civic integration examination abroad applies 
Please enclose with the application a copy of one of the following additional pieces of evidence applicable to your 
situation: 
 The civic integration diploma of the Civic Integration Act; 
 the integration diploma, from before 13 September 2012 (amendment to the Integration Act); 
 A diploma or certificate of a Dutch university, higher professional education (HBO), senior secondary 
vocational education (MBO) (at least level 2), pre-university education (VWO), senior general secondary 
education (HAVO), junior general secondary education (MAVO) or pre-vocational secondary education 
(VMBO), for example.  The foreign national has such a diploma if the diploma states, for example: Higher 
Education and Research Act, Secondary Education Act 2020, Adult and Vocational Education Act or Part-Time 
Vocational Education Act. Education has to be given in Dutch; 
 A ‘Dutch as a Second Language’ state examination diploma (programme I or II); 
 A school diploma or certificate from Belgium or Suriname, obtained in Dutch-language education, with a 
passing mark for the subject of Dutch. It concerns the following diplomas: university degree, HBO, MBO (from 
level 2), VWO, HAVO, MAVO or VMBO, a comparable diploma or other document. The diploma or certificate 
must state the law on which it was issued. Also include a list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from Aruba, Curacao, or Sint Maarten, obtained in Dutch-language 
education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from the public bodies of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius or Saba, obtained in 
Dutch-language education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma from the European school of the European Baccalaureate. The foreign national must have finished 
the subject of Dutch as a first or second language. The foreign national must also have passed the subject of 
Dutch 
 Aan International Baccalaureate Middle Years Certificate or an International General Certificate of Secondary 
Education or an International Baccalaureate. In that case, you must have passed the subject of Dutch; 
 A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC).This shows 
that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and ‘writing’. 
This also shows that the foreign national has passed the component Social Orientation (in Dutch: 
Maatschappij Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 
with a score of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’. The foreigner national is then exempt from the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the 
civic integration exam abroad; and 
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the component Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that the foreign national has passed the Social Orientation component (in Dutch: Maatschappij 
Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 with a score 
of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001.  The foreign national is then 
exempted for the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the civic integration examination abroad;  
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the components Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
 A Civic Integration Certificate for Settled Migrants with level NT2 2 for the ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’ parts; 
 The document ‘Short Exemption Test’ referred to in Article 2.7(2) of the Civic Integration Decree as it read 
until 1 January 2013, issued by the Education Executive Agency (Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs or DUO); or 
The decision from the DUO stating that no civic integration programme is determined, because the foreign 
national passed the test as referred to in Article 5(4) of the Civic Integration (Newcomers) Act. 
 
  

 
  
 
4 
7606 - 07 
 
The foreign national wants to obtain exemption from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
 The foreign national relies on special individual circumstances 
Please enclose the following evidence and documents with the application: 
 means of evidence in which you show that it concerns special individual circumstances due to which the foreign 
national is not able to prepare sufficiently and pass (one or more parts of) the civic integration examination 
abroad. Any individual circumstance which, according to you, should give reason to exempt the foreign national 
from the examination, may be submitted. Explain the details of the personal situation of the foreign national, 
such as: the unavailability of suitable course material, the level of education, the special need of care for one or 
more family members, the individual problems that the foreign national is experiencing because of the situation 
in the country of origin or permanent residence, etc.; and 
 means of evidence which shows that the foreign national has made such efforts that could reasonably, be 
required in order to pass the civic integration examination abroad or to prepare for it. Enclose also the results 
of the taken exams. The results for each part of the civic integration examination could give an indication of the 
delivered efforts; and 
 a copy of the medical questionnaire that is completed and signed by a doctor, who is appointed by the Dutch 
representation in the country of origin, when you want to put forward the medical situation of the foreign 
national as special individual circumstances. The statement of the counselor may not be older than six months 
upon submitting the MVV application. 
Explanation: If the foreign national is obstructed from taking the civic integration examination abroad due to 
medical reasons (physical/ psychological), the foreign national must undergo a medical examination. This 
medical examination is carried out by a doctor who is appointed by the Dutch representation in the country of 
origin. The foreign national must give the physician permission to submit the completed medical questionnaire. 
 
 
Processing of personal data  
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
7623 - 04 
 
1.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
1.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
1.6 Address where you keep the 
records of the foreign national 
Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
   
2        Details of the foreign national                                            Write in block letters 
   
2.1 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
2.2 
 
Sex 
 
 Male  
 Female 
 
2.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
 
2.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
2.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
   
3         Signing by sponsor 
   
  I declare that I present myself as sponsor for the foreign national mentioned under 2 for whom I am 
applying for a residence permit.  
   
3.1 Place and date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
 
 
3.2 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 

 
5 
7525-2025/4 
 Family member of a researcher within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 (inbound long-
term mobility)   (528)  
In case you are the spouse or registered partner of a researcher within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 
who is planning to carry out part of the research programme in the Netherlands in the context of inbound long-
term mobility and you want to apply for a residence permit, please enclose the following means of evidence 
with the application: 
• a copy of the front and back of a valid residence permit as a family member of the researcher, issued by 
the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card. Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application. 
 
 You are the spouse or registered partner of the sponsor who - in the context of incoming long-
term mobility – became holder of  
 the EU Blue Card within the meaning of Directive 2021/1883/EU (522); or 
 a residence permit as a long-term resident with the endorsement ‘former holder of the EU 
Blue Card’ 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with the application: 
• a copy of the front and back of your valid residence permit for residence as a family member of the 
sponsor issued by the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card.  Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• proof of your sponsor's income. See the 'Proof of Income' appendix for the documents required for your 
application. 
 
Your unmarried partner 
 
 You are the unmarried partner of the sponsor (322 - 342) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which means of evidence are needed for your application; 
• a ‘Declaration of relationship’ appendix that you and the sponsor have fully completed and signed; 
• a ‘Questionnaire for residence with partner’ that the sponsor has fully completed and signed;  
• a copy of the unmarried status declaration relating to yourself. The unmarried status declaration must 
come from the country of origin and may not be more than six months old. If you are not staying in your 
country of origin, but in a country of continuous residence, you must add the unmarried status declaration 
from the country of origin and the unmarried status declaration from the country of continuous residence;  
• a copy of an unmarried status declaration of the sponsor. The unmarried status declaration must come 
from the country of origin of the sponsor and may not be more than six months old. If the sponsor did not 
reside in the country of origin before coming to the Netherlands, but in a country of continuous residence, 
please add a declaration of unmarried status from the country of origin and an unmarried declaration from 
the sponsor's country of continuous residence.  If the sponsor has Dutch nationality, a permanent 
residence permit or an asylum residence, he does not need to add an unmarried status declaration. 
  
 Family member of a researcher within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 (inbound long-
term mobility)   (529)  
In case you are the unmarried partner of a researcher within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 who is 
planning to carry out part of the research programme in the Netherlands in the context of inbound long-term 
mobility and you want to apply for a residence permit, please enclose the following means of evidence with the 
application: 
• a copy of the front and back of a valid residence permit as a family member of the researcher, issued by 
the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card. Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application. 

 
6 
7525-2025/4 
 You are the unmarried partner of the sponsor who - in the context of incoming long-term 
mobility –   became holder of  
 the EU Blue Card within the meaning of Directive 2021/1883/EU (522); or 
 a residence permit as a long-term resident with the endorsement ‘former holder of the EU 
Blue Card’ 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with the application: 
• a copy of the front and back of your valid residence permit for residence as a family member of the 
sponsor issued by the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card.  Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• proof of your sponsor's income. See the 'Proof of Income' appendix for the documents required for your 
application. 
 
Your parent 
 
 You are a child born in the Netherlands (764) 
If you were born in the Netherlands and: 
• you are going to stay with your parent; 
• this parent has a residence permit in the Netherlands; and 
• you and your parent have had your main residence in the Netherlands since birth,, 
then you do not have to submit documents to prove this. Continue to section 4. 
 
 You are a minor child (younger than 18 years) of the sponsor or the spouse or (registered) 
partner of the sponsor (326) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor and/or partner of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of 
evidence of income’ appendix for which documents are needed for your application; 
• a copy of your birth certificate or, if the familial relationship between you and the sponsor is not evident 
from the birth certificate, copies of other means of evidence showing the familial relationship, for example 
means of evidence of adoption; and 
• means of evidence showing that the sponsor has rightful authority over you. 
 
If your other parent who also has custody remains in the country of origin, then you must also include: 
• a signed Declaration of Consent from the parent left behind. In this Declaration of Consent it is stated that 
your parent gives his/her permission for you to come to the Netherlands; and 
• a copy of the proof of identity/identity document (for example passport) of the parent left behind. 
 
If you are 15 years old or older, then you must also include: 
• a ‘Declaration of civil status’ appendix, which you have fully completed and signed. 
 
Please note:  
1. The period of validity of the residence permit of the child depends on the situation of the parent who is the 
sponsor. If the sponsor has a temporary residence permit, the end date of the residence permit of the child 
is the same as that of the sponsor. If the sponsor is a Dutch national or has a permanent residence permit, 
the residence permit of the child is valid for 5 years. 
2. If a parent wants to stay in the Netherlands with his/her child, but the child does not come to the 
Netherlands at the same time as the parent: then the child may be subject to a waiting period of 1 year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
7 
7525-2025/4 
 Family member of a researcher within the meaning of Directive (EU) 2016/801 (inbound long-
term mobility) 
In case you are a minor child of (the spouse or (registered) partner of) a researcher within the meaning of 
Directive (EU) 2016/801 who is planning to carry out part of the research programme in the Netherlands in the 
context of inbound long-term mobility and you want to apply for a residence permit, please enclose the 
following means of evidence with the application: 
• a copy of the front and back of a valid residence permit as a family member of the researcher, issued by 
the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card. Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application. 
• means of evidence showing that your sponsor has legal custody of you. 
If your other parent who also has custody remains in the other Member State, then you must also include: 
• a signed Declaration of Consent from the parent left behind. In this Declaration of Consent it is stated that 
your parent gives his/her permission for you to come to the Netherlands; and 
• a copy of the proof of identity/identity document (for example a    passport) of the parent left behind. 
If you are 15 years old or older, then you must also include: 
• a ‘Declaration of civil status’ appendix, which you have fully completed and signed. 
 
 You are a minor child (under 18 years of age) of the sponsor's spouse or (registered) partner, 
or of the sponsor himself/herself, who -  in the context of inbound long-term mobility -   has 
become a  
 holder of the EU Blue Card within the meaning of Directive 2021/1883/EU (522); or 
 a residence permit as a long-term resident with the endorsement ‘former holder of the EU 
Blue Card’ 
 Please enclose the following means of evidence with the application: 
• a copy of the front and back of your valid residence permit for residence as a family member of the 
sponsor issued by the first Member State; 
• a copy of the page with identity details from your passport or ID card.  Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps; 
• proof that you are adequately insured for medical expenses; 
• proof of your sponsor's income. See the 'Proof of Income' appendix for the documents required for your 
application. 
• means of evidence showing that your sponsor has legal custody of you. 
If your other parent who also has custody remains in the other Member State, then you must also include: 
• a signed Declaration of Consent from the parent left behind. In this Declaration of Consent it is stated that 
your parent gives his/her permission for you to come to the Netherlands; and 
• a copy of the proof of identity/identity document (for example a   passport) of the parent left behind. 
If you are 15 years old or older, then you must also include: 
• a ‘Declaration of civil status’ appendix, which you have fully completed and signed. 
 
Your unaccompanied minor child with an asylum permit 
 
 You are the parent of a minor child (younger than 18 years) who has a temporary asylum 
residence permit (347) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence which shows that you are the parent of the child; and 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application. 
If the sponsor is already 18 years old or older, then you must also include: 
• evidence showing that a Dutch Court has appointed a guardian or curator in connection with the mental 
capacity of the sponsor. 
 
  

 
8 
7525-2025/4 
Stay on grounds of Article 8 of the ECHR 
 
 You want to partake in family life with the sponsor on grounds of Article 8 of the ECHR (334) 
Please note! If you want to submit an application for your spouse or (registered) partner, or your parent, then 
you must submit an application to stay with your spouse or (registered) partner, or an application to stay with 
a parent. 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence showing the relationship pertaining to family law between you and the sponsor, for 
example a copy of a birth certificate; and 
• means of evidence showing how your family life will be led with the sponsor 
In case of ending the parental custody by the juvenile court, please enclose the following means of evidence 
with your application: 
• the decision of the juvenile court, which shows that the parental custody has ended and the report of the 
Council for Child protection (Raad voor de Kinderbescherming). 
 
Your adoptive parent 
 
 You were adopted by the sponsor (the foreign decision regarding adoption still needs to be 
recognised by the Dutch Courts), or you have not yet been adopted but you have been 
welcomed into the sponsor’s family for adoption. The sponsor lives in the Netherlands. (350
) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• a copy of a permission in principle from the Ministry of Justice and Security -   Central Authority for 
International Children’s Issues; 
• a copy of a declaration of approval in principle by name from the Ministry of Justice and Security - 
Central Authority for International Children’s Issues, in case of an adoption from a non-Convention 
country. Or, a copy of a Statement of Approval from the Ministry of Justice and Security –   Central 
Authority for International Children’s Issues, in case of an adoption from a Convention country; 
• a copy of a medical statement concerning your health, such as is meant in the Placement of Foreign 
Children for Adoption Act. This statement must have been issued by the country of origin and may not 
be more than 6 months old; 
• a copy of the decision from the relevant competent authorities in the country of origin (for example, a 
decision from the Court in the country of origin), as well as a translation of this. This must show that 
the authorities in the country of origin have agreed to the adoption by the sponsor; and  
• means of evidence showing that your biological parent(s) renounce you (this Declaration of Consent 
can be evident from the above-mentioned decision). 
If you have been adopted by the sponsor and the foreign adoption decision was issued by a foreign institution 
that applied the Hague Adoption Convention (356), then you must enclose: 
• a statement of conformity. 
 
 You were adopted into the family of the sponsor in the period that you and the sponsor lived 
abroad (355) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence showing that your prospective adoption parent(s) who have welcomed you into 
their family and who have raised and cared for you during the period that he/she lived abroad 
(including a copy from the public registers from the country in question); 
• means of evidence showing that your parents or, if they have died or are living in an unknown place, 
the authorities in the country of origin before your arrival in the Netherlands have agreed to your 
departure and with your adoption (statement from your parents or statement from the authorities in 
the country of origin); and 
• means of evidence showing that you entered the Netherlands together with the sponsor.  
 
  

 
9 
7525-2025/4 
Your foster parent 
 
 You are a related foster child of the sponsor and were not yet part of the referent's family in 
your country of origin (352) 
Please note! The sponsor may only be a grandparent, brother, half-brother, sister, half-sister, sister in law, 
brother in law, uncle or aunt. Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. See the ‘Proof of income’ appendix which documents are 
needed for your application;  
• a copy of the medical statement of your health. This statement is issued in    the country of origin and must 
not be older  than 6 months; 
• means of evidence showing that your parents or legal representatives are in agreement with your going to 
live with the sponsor in the Netherlands. If the law in the country of origin demands this, then the sponsor 
must also submit means of evidence which show that the authorities of the country of origin are in 
agreement with your staying with your sponsor’s family; 
• means of evidence concerning the relationship pertaining to family law between you and the sponsor (for 
example, a copy of a Dutch marriage booklet, a birth certificate or familial extract from the register of 
births, marriages and deaths); 
• a written motivation of the exceptional circumstances of yourself and your relatives in the country of    origin 
showing that your relatives are either not able to care for you or cannot care for you well enough; 
• proof from an objective source showing that your family members in the country of origin are either not 
able to care for you or cannot care for you well enough (for example, a statement from a welfare 
institution, a statement from a doctor or a ruling from a judge); and 
• a copy of the declaration from the competent authorities that the guardianship over you is with the 
sponsor, for example a guardianship order. 
 
 You are a foster child of the sponsor and was in fact already a member of the sponsor's family 
in the country of origin (352) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. See the ‘Proof of income’ appendix which documents are needed 
for your application;  
• evidence showing that the authorities of the country of origin consent to your departure to and 
stay in the sponsor's family in the Netherlands; 
• a copy of the declaration from the competent authorities that the guardianship of you rests 
with the referent, for example a guardianship order;  
• a copy of the declaration of the competent authorities of the country of origin which shows that 
you were cared for and raised by the sponsor in the country of origin for at least one year, 
because your own parents had died or were unable to take care of you. An example of such a 
declaration that may demonstrate this is a guardianship order. 
 
Stay with the holder of a residence permit for medical treatment 
 
 You are a family member of the sponsor and the sponsor holds a residence permit for medical 
treatment (415 -  416 -  417 -  419) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence concerning the relationship pertaining to family law between you and the sponsor (for 
example, a copy of a Dutch marriage booklet, a birth certificate or familial extract from the register of 
births, marriages and deaths); and 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Look in the ‘Means of evidence of income’ appendix for 
which documents are needed for your application; 
If you are a minor child of the sponsor, then you must also include: 
• means of evidence showing that the sponsor has rightful parental authority over you. If you were born 
during the marriage of your parents, then a birth certificate will suffice. 
If you are the parent of the sponsor, then you must also include: 
• means of evidence showing that you have parental authority over the sponsor (if the sponsor was born 
during the marriage, then a birth certificate will suffice). 
 
  

 
10 
7525-2025/4 
 You are a family member of the sponsor and the sponsor holds a residence permit on 
‘temporary humanitarian grounds’ because he is in the terminal phase of an illness (570) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• proof concerning the family relationship between you and the sponsor (for example, a copy of a marriage 
booklet, a birth certificate or familial extract from the register of births, deaths and marriages);  
If the sponsor is your minor child, please also enclose: 
• proof showing that you have parental authority over the sponsor. If the sponsor was born during your 
marriage, a birth certificate will suffice.  
If the sponsor is your parent, please also enclose: 
• proof showing that the sponsor has parental authority over you (if you were born during the marriage of 
your parents, a birth certificate will suffice). 
 
Stay with a minor foreign national with a child protection measure (supervision order)  
 
Please note: only the following family members, residing in the Netherlands, are eligible for a residence permit 
to stay with a minor child with a supervision order: 
- The parent(s) with parental authority. 
 
And when a residence permit has been granted to a parent mentioned above: 
- The other minor son or daughter belonging to the family of this parent. The parent must also have parental 
authority over this child. 
 
 You are a family member of the sponsor.  Your sponsor is a    minor foreign national who holds a 
residence permit on ‘temporary humanitarian grounds’ or ‘non-temporary humanitarian 
grounds’,  because he has been put under supervision by the juvenile court (408) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• Proof concerning the family relationship between you and the sponsor (for example, a copy of a marriage 
booklet, a birth certificate or familial extract from the register of births, deaths and marriages);  
If the sponsor is your minor child, please also enclose: 
• Proof showing that you have parental authority over the sponsor. If the sponsor was born during your 
marriage, a birth certificate will suffice.  
 
4 Biometric information, signature and Antecedents certificate 
 
• You must have your fingerprints and facial image (passport photo) taken to determine your identity. 
The biometric information is also required to create a residence permit. For the residence permit the IND 
also needs a signature. See the appendix Fingerprints, passport photo and signature. 
• Fill out the Antecedents certificate appendix and submit this appendix together with your application. 
 
5 Details of the sponsor                                                          Write in block letters 
 
5.1 Citizen Service Number (if 
known) 
           
 
5.2 Name  
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname  
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
5.3 Sex 
 Male  
 Female 
 
5.4 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
5.5 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 

 
11 
7525-2025/4 
5.6 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
5.7 Nationality  
 
5.8 Civil status 
 unmarried (single or living together) 
 married 
 registered partnership 
 divorced 
 widow/widower 
 
5.9 Home address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
5.10 Telephone number            
 
 
5.11 
 
E-  mail 
 
 
 
5.12 Residence status 
 Dutch nationality 
 Privileged 
 Residence Permit, namely. 
 Paid employment 
 Study 
 Asylum 
 A residence permit other than as mentioned above 
 Waiting for the application for a residence permit to be dealt with 
 None 
   
5.13 Turkish nationality  In addition to the nationality you entered under 5.7, does your sponsor also 
has Turkish nationality? 
 
 Yes 
 No 
 
  

 
12 
7525-2025/4 
6 Your personal details                                                                                  Write in block letters 
 
6.1 Name 
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname  
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
6.2 Sex  
 
 Male        
 Female 
 
6.3 Date of birth  
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
6.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
6.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
6.6 Nationality 
 
 
 
6.7 Home address Street 
 
 
Number    
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
6.8 Telephone number             
 
 
6.9 
 
E-  mail 
   
       
 
 
  

 
13 
7525-2025/4 
7     Details of long-term mobility of the family member (if applicable) 
 
7.1 Indicate the period during 
which you will stay in the 
Netherlands 
 
  
from 
  
 
to 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
7.2 
 
Expected date of departure 
from the Netherlands 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
   
8      Location where the residence permit is collected 
   
  Please indicate below the location where you will collect the residence permit 
 
 
 Amsterdam  Goes  ’s-  Hertogenbosch (Den Bosch)  Den Haag 
 
 Maastricht  Zwolle 
 
 
 
9      Identification 
 
Submit the following copies. 
 
Of the sponsor: 
• a copy of the page with identity details of the passport or identity card*. Also copy the pages with travel 
stamps. Do not copy empty pages; or 
• a copy of the front and back of a valid Dutch residence permit. 
 
* Please note! If your sponsor has Turkish nationality besides Dutch nationality, and you wish to appeal to the 
Convention between the European Union and Turkey, you must enclose a copy of one of the supporting 
documents below. The document must have been issued after your sponsor has obtained Dutch nationality: 
• the page from the Turkish passport of your sponsor that contains the personal details and passport photo; 
or 
• the Turkish identity card (Nüfus) of your sponsor; or 
• a statement from the Turkish authorities confirming Turkish nationality of your sponsor. 
 
From the foreign national: 
• A copy of the passport. Make copies of all the pages with travel stamps as well. Do not copy empty pages. 
 
  

 
14 
7525-2025/4 
10 Signing 
 
Signing this form will bring you rights and obligations. If you do not know what these rights and obligations 
are, then visit the website www.ind.nl. 
 
 I declare I have completed this form truthfully.  
 I know that the personal details supplied will be processed in connection with the Aliens Act 2000 and will 
be passed on to authorities that need these personal details for that purpose.  
 I will pass on any changes to my situation, which will affect my right of residence, within 4 weeks to the 
IND with the ‘Notification form for family members and relatives’. I am aware that if I do not do this, it 
may affect my right of residence as foreign national. I know that I may incur an administrative fine
.  
 I know what my rights and obligations are.  
 I have enclosed the signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor (family and relatives)’. 
 
10.1 
 
I  submit this form and            (number) of appendices/documents in evidence. 
 
 
10.2 
 
Name 
 
 
 
10.3 Place en date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
 
10.4 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
11 Submitting the application and payment 
 
            Proceed to the appendix: “Submitting and paying for the application (by the foreign national)”. 
 You send the application form, appendices and the requested evidence to the IND. Make copies of all the 
documents and additional evidence you need and send them with the form. Never send original evidence. 
 You must send clearly readable and full copies of the original evidence in A4 format. Do not use any other 
size paper, staples or paper clips. Write your V-number or your personal information on each copy. 
 Do not send USB sticks, CDs, DVDs, photo albums, receipts and suchlike. 
 
            Send your application to the following address: 
 
Immigratie- en Naturalisatiedienst 
Postbus 16 
             9560 AA  Ter Apel 
 
 