
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: Spouse (Outside NL).pdf
PAGES: 19
==================================================



Power of attorney 
 
for the application of a startup visa 
 
 
 
The undersigned 
[Name], born in [town and country] on [dd-mm-yyyy], holder of a valid 
[country] passport with number [.........] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Startup visa applicant’ 
hereby authorizes and grants full power of attorney to 
[Full legal name of facilitator company], registered under the laws of the 
Netherlands, with its statutory seat and business address at [full address], and 
registered at the Dutch Chamber of Commerce (KVK), number [KVK number], 
duly represented by [representative 1], [representative 2], [representative 3] 
 hereinafter referred to as ‘the Facilitator’. 
With respect to any and all legal acts regarding the process of a startup visa 
application in the Netherlands the Facilitator legally represents the Startup 
visa applicant with respect to any and all legal acts. 
This power of attorney shall be governed exclusively by the laws of the 
Netherlands. 
 
 
 
Date 
Name 
Signature 
 
 

 
7601-03 
 
 
 
Appendix Antecedents Certificate 
 
Who should complete this appendix? 
Pursuant to Articles 3.77, paragraph 11 and 3.86, paragraph 18 of the Aliens Decree, every foreign national aged 12 
years or older must complete this appendix. 
Please note! This statement consists of 2 pages. You must complete both pages. 
 
  
1    Declaration of the foreign national  
  
 On this form you fill in whether you have ever committed a crime or a criminal offence. These are crimes 
committed in the Netherlands and criminal offences committed outside the Netherlands. You must answer the 
questions with Yes or No. Not completing the form truthfully or failing to report is a criminal offence. This can lead 
to a sanction. Your answers may have consequences for your application or for a residence permit that you have 
previously received. 
  
 > Please tick the applicable situation 
  
 Are you currently being prosecuted for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or for 
committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 Yes  No 
  
Have you ever been sentenced to a fine, community service, penalty order by a public 
prosecutor, custodial measure or imprisonment or have you accepted an out-of-court 
settlement for committing a crime in the Netherlands? Or have you ever been convicted 
of committing a criminal offence abroad? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 
 No 
  
Have you ever committed a crime, or have you been involved in a crime as referred to in 
Article 1F of the 1951 Geneva Convention on Refugees? Like a murder, war crime, 
genocide, terrorist crime or crimes against humanity? 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you received an entry ban from one of the countries of the EU/EEA or Switzerland?*  
Or a measure similar to an entry ban? 
 
* This is a ban on travel to the Netherlands, the EU / EEA or Switzerland. 
 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
  
Have you submitted incorrect data during earlier residence procedures in the 
Netherlands?  
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
  
Have you ever stayed illegally in the Netherlands? 
 
 Yes 
 
 No 
 
    
 > Have you ticked Yes for one or more questions? Then explain why. 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
7601-03 
2 Signature of the foreign national   
 
 I have completed this form truthfully. 
 I know that the IND can reject my application or withdraw my residence permit if I have ever been 
convicted of committing a crime. 
 If something changes in my situation through which my statements on this form are no longer correct, I 
will notify the IND as soon as possible. I do this within four weeks after the change in my situation. 
  
2.1 V-number (if known) 
 
           
 
2.2 Name 
 
 
2.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
    
    
       
   
   
2.4 Place and date  Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
 
 
2.5 
 
 
 
Signature  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 

 
  
 
1 
9511 –   2025/7 
 
 
                             
Application for admission and residence 'to stay with a family 
member’ (foreign national) 
   
To be filled in by the Dutch embassy or consulate  
   
Location of the 
embassy/consulate where 
the application is submitted 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
 
 
Name and initials embassy 
employee 
 
 
 
 
 
Please note! If you have received a printed version of this information form, please check out the digital version, 
including direct links, on www.ind.nl. 
 
With this form, you apply for admission and residence in the Netherlands to stay with a family member. This family 
member is your sponsor. Your sponsor: 
- has the Dutch nationality;  or  
- has a Dutch residence permit and lives in the Netherlands;  or    
- has applied for admission and residence; or 
- applies for admission and residence at the same time as you.  
You can only use this form if you are a foreign national staying outside the Netherlands. You can submit the application 
yourself if you are 12 years or older. If you want to submit an application for your minor child, you must have parental 
authority over your child. You submit the application to the Dutch embassy or consulate in the country of origin or the 
country of continuous residence.* Please check the contact page of  www.netherlandsworldwide.nl/mvv
 to
     find out 
where and how you can make an appointment for this. 
 
* In case there is no Dutch consulate or embassy in your country of origin or permanent residence, please turn to the 
nearest Dutch representation. 
 
You can use this form in the following situations: 
• You are married to the sponsor or you have a registered partnership with the sponsor. 
• You are the unmarried partner of the sponsor. 
• You are a minor child (younger than 18 years) of the sponsor or the spouse or (registered) partner of the sponsor. 
 
Appointment at the Dutch embassy or consulate 
Please take this application form, your passport photo and valid passport with you to the appointment at the Dutch 
embassy or consulate. Depending on your situation (see section ‘7 Means of evidence’), you should also bring the 
original copies of the marriage certificate, birth certificate or unmarried status declaration to your appointment. The 
embassy or consulate employee will register your application and fill out the information box above. You will also 
receive a confirmation letter with your registration number (V-number). Please keep this letter: you will need it later. 
After submitting the application to the embassy or consulate, you will receive this application form back.   
 
 
 
 
  
Passport photo 
size 35 x 45 mm                                   
(width x height) 
*9511* 

 
  
 
2 
9511 –   2025/7 
 
 
 
  
After the appointment 
To be able to assess your application, the Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) in the Netherlands needs 
information from you. Please complete and send this form, with all the necessary documents mentioned in section      
‘7 Means of evidence’, to the IND within three weeks from the date of your application (see the date above). Please 
also enclose the confirmation letter you received from the embassy or consulate. If you do not send all the necessary 
documents, the assessment of your application will be delayed. If the IND does not receive the information and 
documents in time, your application may be rejected. 
 
1    Your personal details                                                             Write in block letters 
 
1.1 V-number            
 
Please note! It is imperative that your V-number is mentioned above. Without 
this number, your application can not be processed. The embassy or consulate 
will give you this number. 
   
   
1.2 Dutch Citizen service number  
(if applicable) 
           
 
  The Dutch Citizen service number (BSN) is a unique number for everyone who 
has dealings with the Dutch government. 
   
1.3 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
   
1.4 Sex 
 
 Male        
 Female 
 
1.5 Date of birth 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
1.6 Place of birth 
 
 
  
   
1.7 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
 
1.8 Nationality at birth 
 
 
 
   
1.9 Current nationality 
 
 
1.10 Civil status 
 unmarried (single or living together) 
 married 
 registered partnership 
 divorced 
 widow/widower 
   
  

 
  
 
3 
9511 –   2025/7 
1.11 Home address Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
Country 
 
 
 
   
1.12 Telephone number 
 
           
 
   
1.13 E-mail  
 
1.14 Type of travel document 
 National passport 
 Diplomatic passport 
 Service passport 
 Official passport 
 Special passport 
 Other type of travel document, namely: 
  
 
 
1.15 Specifications of the travel 
document 
Travel document number 
 
 
 
Date of issue 
 
 
 
 
 
Valid until 
 
 
 
 
 
Issued by 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
  

 
  
 
4 
9511 –   2025/7 
 Only if the applicant is under 18 years of age (1.16 to 1.18) 
   
1.16 Name of legal representative 
of the applicant (parent or 
guardian) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
1.17 Address of legal 
representative of the 
applicant (parent or guardian) 
Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
Country 
 
 
 
 
1.18 Nationality legal 
representative of the 
applicant (parent or guardian) 
 
 
   
2    Situation of your sponsor 
   
 Does the family member you 
want to stay with already live 
in the Netherlands? 
 Yes   
> Please go to section ‘3 Details of your sponsor in the Netherlands (if 
applicable)’ and fill in the details. 
 No. The family member I want to stay with applies for admission and 
residence at the same time as me.   
> Please go to section ‘4 Identification’. 
   
3    Details of your sponsor in the Netherlands (if applicable)                                                 
   
3.1 V-number of your sponsor            
 
   
3.2 Dutch Citizen service number  
of your sponsor (if applicable) 
           
 
  The Dutch Citizen service number (BSN) is a unique number for everyone who 
has dealings with the Dutch government. 
   
3.3 Name of your sponsor 
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
  

 
  
 
5 
9511 –   2025/7 
3.4 Sex of your sponsor 
 
 Male        
 Female 
 
3.5 Date of birth of your sponsor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
   
3.6 Place of birth of your sponsor 
 
 
  
   
3.7 Country of birth of your 
sponsor 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
 
3.8 Nationality at birth of your 
sponsor 
 
 
 
   
3.9 Current nationality of your 
sponsor 
 
 
3.10 Civil status of your sponsor 
 unmarried (single or living together) 
 married 
 registered partnership 
 divorced 
 widow/widower 
   
3.11 Residence status of your 
sponsor 
 Dutch nationality 
 Privileged 
 Residence Permit, namely. 
 Paid employment 
 Study 
 Asylum 
 A residence permit other than as mentioned above 
 Waiting for the application for a residence permit to be dealt with 
 None 
   
3.12 Address of the sponsor in the 
Netherlands 
Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
 
3.13 Telephone number of your 
sponsor 
 
           
 
3.14 E-mail of your sponsor  
 

 
  
 
6 
9511 –   2025/7 
4   Identification 
   
 Please enclose the following documents with your application: 
• A copy of your passport. Make copies of all the pages with travel stamps as well. Do not copy empty pages.  
 
Are you younger than 18 years old and do you not have your own passport?  
Then you should submit a copy of the passport of your parent in whose passport you are registered. Make 
copies of all the pages with travel stamps as well. Do not copy empty pages. 
 
In case your sponsor already resides in the Netherlands, you should also submit the following copies: 
• copy of the page with identity details of the passport or identity card of the sponsor*. Also copy the pages 
with travel stamps. Do not copy empty pages; or  
• a copy of the front and back of a valid Dutch residence permit. 
 
* Please note! If your sponsor has Turkish nationality besides Dutch nationality, and you wish to appeal to the 
Convention between the European Union and Turkey, you must enclose a copy of one of the supporting 
documents below. The document must have been issued after your sponsor has obtained Dutch nationality: 
• the page from the Turkish passport of your sponsor that contains the personal details and passport photo; 
or 
• the Turkish identity card (Nüfus) of your sponsor; or 
• a statement from the Turkish authorities confirming Turkish nationality of your sponsor. 
   
5    Civic integration examination abroad 
   
 You want to apply for a regular provisional residence permit. Before you can apply for a regular provisional 
residence permit, you must first have passed the civic integration examination abroad or have or obtain an 
exemption from this. Go to the 
‘Civic integration examination abroad’ appendix a   nd see ‘The foreign national is 
exempt from the civic integration examination abroad’ for the exemptions. See ‘The foreign national relies on 
special individual circumstances’ what proof is required in order to obtain an exemption. Please tick the 
applicable situation and enclose the proof with the application. 
   
 > Please tick the applicable situation 
   
 
 You have passed all parts of the civic integration examination abroad (and the passed civic 
integration examination is still valid. Go to the ‘Civic integration examination abroad’ appendix a   nd see 
‘Period of validity of examination’ for information about the validity of the examination.  
Enclose with the application the results issued by the Education Executive Agency (DUO). 
 You are exempt from the civic integration examination abroad. 
Enclose with the application the 
’Civic integration examination abroad’ appendix a   nd the proof showing that 
you qualify for an exemption. 
 You want to obtain an exemption from the civic integration examination abroad.  
Enclose with the application the ’Civic integration examination abroad’ appendix a   nd the proof required to 
obtain an exemption. 
   
6    Declaration of intent to undergo a TB test 
   
 In order to obtain a residence permit, you must be prepared to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test in the 
Netherlands and -  if necessary -treatment. If you are granted a residence permit, you will actually have to 
undergo a TB test within three months after having received your residence permit.  
 
When you are in the Netherlands, you should make a TB test appointment with the Municipal Health Service 
(GGD) in the area where you live or will be living (for further information visit the website www.ggd.nl
).    
 
Should it become clear after the issue of a residence permit that -  despite signing the declaration of intent -  you 
failed to undergo a TB test within the period of three months, this may result in a cancellation of the permit that 
was granted.  
 

 
  
 
7 
9511 –   2025/7 
Please note! The obligation to undergo the test does not apply if you are a national of one of the countries listed 
in the appendix ‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’. 
 
> Please check either one of the following two boxes 
 
 I hereby declare that I am prepared to cooperate in a tuberculosis test and any treatment. I am aware of 
the fact that I must undergo a TB test within three months after the residence permit has been received. If 
I fail to do so, this might have consequences for my right of residence in the Netherlands. 
 I do not need to undergo a TB test because I am a national of one of the countries listed in the appendix 
‘Exemption from the obligation to undergo a tuberculosis (TB) test’. 
 
7   Means of evidence                                  
 
          Requirements of foreign means of evidence  
 Documents must be in Dutch, English, French or German. In case the documents are drafted in another 
language, you need to have these translated by an authorised translator. Send a copy of the original documents 
together with a copy of the translation. 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 You are married to the sponsor or you have a registered partnership with the sponsor. (320–
340) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Check the Appendix Proof of income
 ‘
  for which documents 
are needed for your application;  
• the
 completed and signed appendix ‘the completed and signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor (family and 
relatives)’; 
• a signed and completed appendix ‘Antecedents certificate’. 
If this involves a marriage, then you must also submit: 
• a copy of the marriage certificate.  
If this involves a registered partnership, then you should also submit:  
• a copy of the deed of registered partnership. 
 
 You are the unmarried partner of the sponsor (322 -  342) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor. Check the Appendix Proof of income f
  or which means of 
evidence are needed for your application; 
• a s
igned and completed appendix ‘Antecedents certificate’;  
• the completed and signed appendix ‘the completed and signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor (family and 
relatives)’; 
• a ‘Declaration of relationship’ appendix that you and the sponsor have fully completed and signed; 
• a ‘Questionnaire for residence with partner’ appendix that the sponsor has fully completed and signed;  
• a copy of the unmarried status declaration relating to yourself. The unmarried status declaration must come 
from the country of origin and may not be more than six months old. If you are not staying in your country 
of origin, but in a country of continuous residence, you must add the unmarried status declaration from the 
country of origin and the unmarried status declaration from the country of continuous residence;  
• a copy of an unmarried status declaration of the sponsor. The unmarried status declaration must come from 
the country of origin of the sponsor and may not be more than six months old. If the sponsor did not reside 
in the country of origin before coming to the Netherlands, but in a country of continuous residence, please 
add a declaration of unmarried status from the country of origin and an unmarried declaration from the 
sponsor's country of continuous residence.  If the sponsor has Dutch nationality, a permanent residence 
permit or an asylum residence, he does not need to add an unmarried status declaration. 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
8 
9511 –   2025/7 
 You are a minor child (younger than 18 years) of the sponsor or the spouse or (registered) 
partner of the sponsor (326) 
Please enclose the following means of evidence with your application: 
• means of evidence of the income of the sponsor and/or partner of the sponsor. Check the Appendix P
roof of 
income for which documents are needed for your application; 
• a signed and completed appendix ‘Antecedents certificate’ (  only if you are 12 years of age or older); 
• the completed and signed appendix ‘the completed and signed appendix ‘Declaration by sponsor (family and 
relatives)’; 
• a copy of your birth certificate or, if the familial relationship between you and the sponsor is not evident 
from the birth certificate, copies of other means of evidence showing the familial relationship, for example 
means of evidence of adoption;  
• means of evidence showing that the sponsor has rightful authority over you. 
If your other parent who also has custody remains in the country of origin, then you must also include: 
• a signed Declaration of Consent from the parent left behind
.  I
   n this Declaration of Consent it is stated that 
your parent gives his/her permission for you to come to the Netherlands;  
• a
 copy of the proof of identity/identity document (for example passport) of the parent left behind. 
If you are 15 years old or older, then you must also include: 
• a ‘Certificate of non-impediment’ appendix
, which you have fully completed and signed. 
 
8    Payment of fees 
 
 Before your application can be assessed, you must pay a fee. Please check Fees: Costs of an application (ind.nl)  
for the fee applicable to your situation. The application is free of charge for citizens of San Marino and Israel.  
 
Pl
ease transfer the fee for the application to the bank account of the IND referred to below and send a proof of 
payment to the IND. 
 
As a payment reference, you must fill in your V-number, which you receive from the Dutch 
embassy/consulate where you submit your application. If you do not do this, your payment may not 
be processed properly.  
   
 Bank ING 
 IBAN NL31INGB0705005356 
 Name Min. van Justitie en Veiligheid 601/IND LEGES Storting Bank 
 SWIFT code INGBNL2A 
 Address Postbus 85449 
 Postcode 2508 CC 
 City Den Haag 
 Payment reference Your V-number 
  
You must transfer the fee within three weeks after the date on top of this form (filled in by the Netherlands 
embassy or    consulate).   Your application will only be assessed when the whole amount has been received by the 
IND. Please check whether your bank deducts a fee from the amount being transferred. 
 
If the assessment of your application shows that you do not qualify for a residence permit in the Netherlands, 
you will not receive a refund. 
 
  

 
  
 
9 
9511 –   2025/7 
9    Declaration of consent  
          (only if your sponsor not already lives in the Netherlands) 
   
 The IND will assess and decide on your application. If you wish communication with the IND to take place by e-
mail (instead of by post), you must consent to this first.  
You can email with the IND by using Zivver. Zivver is a means of securely emailing and exchanging files. Read 
more about emailing securely with Zivver at i
nd.nl/en/send-documents. 
 
> Please check either one of the following two boxes 
 
 I agree that communication with the IND will take place by e-mail. I want the email address I provided 
above to be used for this (section 1.13). I access this email address on a regular basis. 
 
 I do not agree that communication with the IND will take place by e-mail. I want correspondence to be sent 
to the address I provided above (section 1.11). 
 
Please note! The IND accepts no responsibility for any email messages that fail to reach you or are delayed. The 
IND cannot guarantee the reliability of sending or receiving messages by email, or the confidentiality and 
integrity of email correspondence sent over the internet. 
   
   
10    What will happen with your application? 
 
 After receipt of your application, your documents and fee, the IND will assess your application. You will be 
contacted by the IND if your payment or your documents are not received. You will also be informed once the 
assessment of your application has been finalised. If your application is granted, you will also receive 
information about the follow-up procedure. 
 
Please note! If your sponsor already resides in the Netherlands IND will not contact you, but your sponsor 
instead.  
  
11    MVV and residence permit 
 
 In case your application is granted you will receive an MVV (entry visa) from the Dutch embassy/consulate. 
When your application is granted you can make an appointment to collect your MVV via 
www.netherlandsworldwide.nl. T    he IND aims to have your residence permit ready within a few weeks following 
your arrival in the Netherlands. The IND will send you a letter indicating when you can collect your residence 
permit. For this, you have to make an appointment online at the IND desk stated in the letter. 
   
11.1 Intended date of departure to 
the Netherlands 
 
Day Month Year 
    
   
       
   
11.2 Please indicate below where you will collect the residence permit: 
 
 
 Amsterdam  Goes  ’s-  Hertogenbosch (Den Bosch)  Den Haag 
 
 Maastricht  Zwolle 
  
 
  

 
  
 
10 
9511 –   2025/7 
12    Registering in the Netherlands  
 
 You need your birth certificate (legalised and translated if necessary, please check www.ind.nl) for registering in 
the Personal Records Database (BRP) a   t your local municipality after arriving in the Netherlands. This is a 
mandatory procedure. When you are registered in the BRP, you will automatically obtain a citizen service 
number (BSN), unless you already have this. 
 
13    Signing 
 
  Signing this form will bring you rights and obligations. If you do not know what these rights and obligations  
are, then visit the website www.ind.nl. 
 
 I declare I have completed this form truthfully.  
 I know that the personal details supplied will be processed in connection with the Aliens Act 2000 and will 
be passed on to authorities that need these personal details for that purpose.  
 I will pass on any changes to my situation, which will affect my right of residence, within 4 weeks to the 
IND with the ‘Notification form for family members and relatives’. I am aware that if I do not do this, it may 
affect my right of residence as foreign national. I know that I may incur an administrative fine.  
 I know what my rights and obligations are. 
 
13.1 I submit this form and (number) of appendices/documents in evidence. 
 
      
13.2 Name     
 
 
 
13.3 Place and Date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
   
  
       
 
 
13  .4  
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14     Submitting this form with the necessary documents 
 
 Sign and send the completed form, a proof of payment, the appendices and the requested documents to the 
IND in the Netherlands by post. Never send any original documents. You must send clearly readable and full 
copies of the original documents. Do not use any staples or paperclips. Do not send any USB sticks, CD’s, DVDs 
and suchlike. Put all the documents in a sufficiently stamped envelope. Send this to the following address: 
 
Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) 
P.O. Box 5 
9560 AA TER APEL 
The Netherlands 
 
 Alternatively, you can send copies of your documents by email. You can do that by using Zivver. Zivver is a 
means of securely emailing and exchanging files. Read more about emailing securely with Zivver a   t 
ind.nl/en/send-documents. 
 
 
Processing of personal data 
The IND records your data in the IND systems to be able to carry out legal tasks. The IND uses and secures your 
personal data carefully and on the basis of the requirements of the privacy legislation. Read how the IND handles your 
personal data on ind.nl/en/privacy. 
 
 

 
  
 
 
7623 - 04 
 
 
 
Appendix Declaration by sponsor (family and relatives) 
Explanation 
If you apply for residence for a family member to stay with you in the Netherlands, you are the sponsor. This comes 
with responsibilities. As a sponsor, you must ensure that your family member meets the conditions for a residence 
permit. Not only when applying for a residence permit, but also afterwards. Is your family member no longer entitled 
to reside in the Netherlands? Then you must ensure that your family member leaves the Netherlands. 
 
Please note! You only complete this statement for your own family members. Are you applying for a child that is not 
your own child, but that of your spouse/partner? In that case, your spouse/partner must complete this statement for 
the child. 
 
Report changes 
Are there any changes in your situation, which could have any effect on the residence permit? If so, you are obliged to 
report these changes to the IND within 4 weeks. The IND refers to this as the obligation to provide information. Please 
use the ‘Notification form for family members and relatives’, which you can download from www.ind.nl
. The form lists 
the changes you need to report. 
 
Retain records 
You are obliged to collect and store any relevant information about your family member. You can find the data you are 
obliged to store in the Aliens Regulations. You must store this documentary evidence for 5 years after you are no 
longer the sponsor of the foreign national. The IND refers to this as the duty to keep and retain records. The IND can 
request data from you at any time. In this way the IND checks whether you comply with this obligation. 
   
 
Processing of personal data 
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read 
how the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
1        Details of sponsor                                                                        Write in block letters 
 
1.1 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
1.2 
 
Sex 
 
 Male  
 Female 
 
1.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
  

 
  
 
 
7623 - 04 
 
1.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
1.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
1.6 Address where you keep the 
records of the foreign national 
Street 
 
 
Number 
 
 
Postcode 
 
      
Town 
 
 
 
   
2        Details of the foreign national                                            Write in block letters 
   
2.1 Name     
(as stated in the passport) 
Surname 
 
 
First names 
 
 
 
2.2 
 
Sex 
 
 Male  
 Female 
 
2.3 Date of birth 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
 
2.4 
 
Place of birth 
 
 
 
2.5 Country of birth 
(as stated in the passport) 
 
 
   
3         Signing by sponsor 
   
  I declare that I present myself as sponsor for the foreign national mentioned under 2 for whom I am 
applying for a residence permit.  
   
3.1 Place and date Place 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day Month Year 
      
      
       
 
 
3.2 
 
 
Signature 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
1 
7606 - 07 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix Civic integration examination abroad 
 
A foreign national must sit the civic integration examination abroad. 
 
In some cases, a foreign national may be exempted based on age, diplomas, certificates or other documents. The 
foreign national can also be eligible for exemption if special individual circumstances such as age, level of education, 
financial situation or medical situation gives rise thereto. The whole personal situation of the foreign national and all the 
circumstances put forward plus the keenness shown to want to pass the examination and the necessary efforts made in 
that respect, are considered in the evaluation whether the foreign national can be exempted from the obligation to pass 
the examination. Tick the situation that applies to the foreign national and enclose the requested documents with the 
application. 
 
Period of validity of completed examination 
The civic integration examination abroad consists of 3 exam components: Knowledge of Dutch Society (in Dutch: Kennis 
Nederlandse Samenleving, Speaking skills and Reading skills.. The examination is successfully completed when the 
foreign national has passed all 3 parts. When all parts have been passed, DUO sends the results of the completed 
examination by e-mail. The completed civic integration examination is valid for 1 year. The e-mail includes a PDF file 
with the results and the issue date (datum afgifte). The mvv must be applied for within 1 year of the issue date. Is the 
date of issue more than 1 year ago? Then the foreign national has to retake the examination. 
 
Sending documentary evidence 
If you send the application, you should enclose a certified copy of the requested diplomas, certificates and/or lists of 
marks. A certified copy contains a statement that the contents of the copy correspond with the original. A copy of the 
civic integration examination does not have to be certified. This statement must have been signed by a person (from an 
institution) who is authorised to do so. The statement must also contain: the name of this person, a date and a stamp of 
the school (or the municipality, the notary’s office). A copy of a diploma may only be certified by the relevant 
educational institution. If it concerns a diploma that has not been issued in the Netherlands, the diploma or certificate 
must bear an apostille stamp. 
 
The foreign national is exempt from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
> Please tick the applicable situation 
 
 The foreign national is younger than 18 years old, or has reached the statutory pensionable age 
 
 The foreign national lived in the Netherlands for at least eight years during your school age (from the 
age of five until the end of the school year in which you reached the age of sixteen)  
The foreign national must have been registered in the municipal personal records database during the above 
period. 
 
 The foreign national will be staying with a foreign national who has a temporary asylum residence 
permit or a permanent asylum residence permit 
 
 The foreign national meets the conditions for residence in order to exercise family life with the 
referent on the basis of Article 8 ECHR 
 
 The foreigner national has fulfilled an integration requirement in another EU or EEA country in order to 
obtain long-term resident status 
 
*7606* 

 
  
 
2 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national wants to stay in the Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay in accordance 
with the Civic Integration Act (in Dutch: Wet Inburgering). Temporary purposes of stay according to the 
Civic Integration Act are: work on a self-employed basis; work as a highly skilled migrant; residence as a holder of 
an EU Blue Card holder; seasonal work; Intra Corporate Transferee (Directive 2014/66/EU); paid employment*; 
cross-border services; Researcher under Directive (EU) 2016/801; to gain work experience; work as non-
privileged military or non-military civilian staff; study; looking for work and carrying out work whether or not as 
an employee; exchange; medical treatment; temporary humanitarian grounds; waiting for a request based on  
article 17 of the Netherlands Nationality Act; for a purpose of stay other than that as mentioned previously here 
whereby, when the residence permit is granted, it is stated that the purpose of stay is temporary **. 
 
* Foreign nationals who want to work in the Netherlands as spiritual leaders must pass the basic civic integration 
examination abroad.  
** Article 3.5, fourth paragraph, Aliens Decree (in Dutch: Artikel 3.5, vierde lid, Vreemdelingenbesluit). 
 
 The foreign national wants to stay with a family member who has a residence permit in the 
Netherlands for a temporary purpose of stay as mentioned above 
 
 The foreign national will only perform work as a contemplative, internal officer or board member of a 
religious or ideological organization. 
Please note! You can only tick this exemption if the foreign national applies for the purpose of residence ‘Spiritual 
counsellor’. 
Please enclose with the application an employer’s declaration containing a description of the nature of the work 
showing the religious or ideological nature of the activities. 
 
 The foreign national has Surinamese nationality and at least finished primary school in the Dutch 
language 
Please enclose the following additional pieces of evidence and documents with your application: 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname before 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a primary school (or higher) diploma or certificate and a statement from the Central Registry Office bearing 
an apostille and showing that the foreign national resided in Suriname at the time when he finished primary 
school or secondary school (see the explanation under ‘Foreign documents’ and ‘Language’ on page 2 of this 
form) 
If the foreign national at least finished primary school in Suriname after 25 November 1975, you should also 
enclose: 
 a school diploma or certificate issued by the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur  
(Ministry of Education, Science and Culture), obtained in Suriname and showing that the foreign national at 
least finished primary school or a course in the Dutch language, or a certificate from the Examination Centre 
of the Surinamese Ministerie van Onderwijs, Wetenschap en Cultuur (Ministry of Education, Science and 
Culture) showing this. The diploma, certificate or statement must bear an apostille. 
If the foreign national attended a higher education course in the Netherlands, please also enclose: 
• The Dutch education diploma.  
If   the foreign national was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school 
 A copy of a historical overview from the Settlement Register in The Hague showing that the foreign national 
was living in the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen; or 
A transcript from the (Municipal) Personal Records Database (BRP) showing that the foreign national was living in 
the Netherlands while completing primary school, at the age of eleven or twelve or thirteen. 
 
  

 
  
 
3 
7606 - 07 
 The foreign national has one of the below diplomas, certificates or documents to which an exemption 
from the civic integration examination abroad applies 
Please enclose with the application a copy of one of the following additional pieces of evidence applicable to your 
situation: 
 The civic integration diploma of the Civic Integration Act; 
 the integration diploma, from before 13 September 2012 (amendment to the Integration Act); 
 A diploma or certificate of a Dutch university, higher professional education (HBO), senior secondary 
vocational education (MBO) (at least level 2), pre-university education (VWO), senior general secondary 
education (HAVO), junior general secondary education (MAVO) or pre-vocational secondary education 
(VMBO), for example.  The foreign national has such a diploma if the diploma states, for example: Higher 
Education and Research Act, Secondary Education Act 2020, Adult and Vocational Education Act or Part-Time 
Vocational Education Act. Education has to be given in Dutch; 
 A ‘Dutch as a Second Language’ state examination diploma (programme I or II); 
 A school diploma or certificate from Belgium or Suriname, obtained in Dutch-language education, with a 
passing mark for the subject of Dutch. It concerns the following diplomas: university degree, HBO, MBO (from 
level 2), VWO, HAVO, MAVO or VMBO, a comparable diploma or other document. The diploma or certificate 
must state the law on which it was issued. Also include a list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from Aruba, Curacao, or Sint Maarten, obtained in Dutch-language 
education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma, certificate or other document from the public bodies of Bonaire, Sint Eustatius or Saba, obtained in 
Dutch-language education, with a passing mark for the subject of Dutch. Also enclose the list of marks; 
 A diploma from the European school of the European Baccalaureate. The foreign national must have finished 
the subject of Dutch as a first or second language. The foreign national must also have passed the subject of 
Dutch 
 Aan International Baccalaureate Middle Years Certificate or an International General Certificate of Secondary 
Education or an International Baccalaureate. In that case, you must have passed the subject of Dutch; 
 A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC).This shows 
that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and ‘writing’. 
This also shows that the foreign national has passed the component Social Orientation (in Dutch: 
Maatschappij Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 
with a score of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that at least NT2 level 2 has been achieved for the components ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’. The foreigner national is then exempt from the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the 
civic integration exam abroad; and 
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the component Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
• - A civic integration certificate under the Civic Integration Newcomers Act (in Dutch: Wet inburgering 
nieuwkomers or WIN) and the accompanying statement from the Regional Training Centre (ROC). This must 
show that the foreign national has passed the Social Orientation component (in Dutch: Maatschappij 
Oriëntatie (MO)). Or the foreign national has taken an MO Profile test before 1 September 2001 with a score 
of at least 85%, or at least 80% if the test was taken after 31 August 2001.  The foreign national is then 
exempted for the components Speaking skills and Reading skills of the civic integration examination abroad;  
- Proof that the foreign national has passed the components Knowledge of Dutch Society of the civic 
integration examination abroad; 
 A Civic Integration Certificate for Settled Migrants with level NT2 2 for the ‘listening’, ‘speaking’, ‘reading’ and 
‘writing’ parts; 
 The document ‘Short Exemption Test’ referred to in Article 2.7(2) of the Civic Integration Decree as it read 
until 1 January 2013, issued by the Education Executive Agency (Dienst Uitvoering Onderwijs or DUO); or 
The decision from the DUO stating that no civic integration programme is determined, because the foreign 
national passed the test as referred to in Article 5(4) of the Civic Integration (Newcomers) Act. 
 
  

 
  
 
4 
7606 - 07 
 
The foreign national wants to obtain exemption from the civic integration examination abroad 
 
 The foreign national relies on special individual circumstances 
Please enclose the following evidence and documents with the application: 
 means of evidence in which you show that it concerns special individual circumstances due to which the foreign 
national is not able to prepare sufficiently and pass (one or more parts of) the civic integration examination 
abroad. Any individual circumstance which, according to you, should give reason to exempt the foreign national 
from the examination, may be submitted. Explain the details of the personal situation of the foreign national, 
such as: the unavailability of suitable course material, the level of education, the special need of care for one or 
more family members, the individual problems that the foreign national is experiencing because of the situation 
in the country of origin or permanent residence, etc.; and 
 means of evidence which shows that the foreign national has made such efforts that could reasonably, be 
required in order to pass the civic integration examination abroad or to prepare for it. Enclose also the results 
of the taken exams. The results for each part of the civic integration examination could give an indication of the 
delivered efforts; and 
 a copy of the medical questionnaire that is completed and signed by a doctor, who is appointed by the Dutch 
representation in the country of origin, when you want to put forward the medical situation of the foreign 
national as special individual circumstances. The statement of the counselor may not be older than six months 
upon submitting the MVV application. 
Explanation: If the foreign national is obstructed from taking the civic integration examination abroad due to 
medical reasons (physical/ psychological), the foreign national must undergo a medical examination. This 
medical examination is carried out by a doctor who is appointed by the Dutch representation in the country of 
origin. The foreign national must give the physician permission to submit the completed medical questionnaire. 
 
 
Processing of personal data  
The Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND) processes personal data when it processes your application, 
notification, or request. This means that if needed the IND will request data from you yourself and other organisations 
or persons. The IND also uses and stores data and shares them with other organisations. When doing so, the IND 
strictly adheres to the stipulations of privacy legislation. For instance, the IND must treat data safely and with due care. 
The law also gives rights. At your request, you are allowed to see which data on you the IND processes. You can also 
get information on why the IND does so and to whom your data have been passed on. On www.ind.nl you can read how 
the IND processes your data and which rights you have. You can also read how to use your rights. 
 
 
 