
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: The_handbook_of_mobile_market_research.pdf
PAGES: 312
==================================================



THE HANDBOOK OF
MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Tools and Techniques for Market Researchers
RAY POYNTER, NAVIN WILLIAMS, AND SUE YORK



‘Wow – Ray Poynter and the team have done it again! Without a doubt, mobile has changed the
relationship between brands and customers and this is changing how market and social research
will need to be conducted and delivered.The Handbook of Mobile Market Researchis both timely
and an invaluable resource for marketers and researchers of all ages and experiences. A practical
guide that does not get bogged down in technology speak, but focuses more how to get things
done and addresses the tough but important topics such as ethics, incentives, and the challenges
of “in the moment”. It will become an essential reference guide with practical tips and tricks
for success (my favorite tip is “don’t collect more data than can be analyzed with the resources
available!”).’
Peter Harris, EVP & Managing Director, Vision Critical Asia Pacific
‘Poynter, Williams, and York have created an incomparable primer, truly the first of its kind,
for the use of mobile technologies in the practice of market research.The Handbook of Mobile
Market Researchprovides a deep-dive into mobile as an emerging marketing measurement and
data collection platform, while also providing a holistic view of current and future opportunities
for marketers as mobile and cross platform research methods continue to evolve.’
Kristin Luck, President and CMO, Decipher
‘Ray Poynter does it again inThe Handbook of Mobile Market Research, this time with the aid of co-
authors Sue York and Navin Williams. Drawing upon decades of study in the methods of market
research practice, Ray, Sue, and Navin clarify the manner in which mobile devices are changing
market research today and will continue to shape it in the future. The book incorporates social
media, big data, and other technology of our times to provide a detailed reference document
of applications and implementation practices for mobile research. Most importantly, it provides
what is the most comprehensive summary of research-on [mobile]-research available in the
industry today. This book has something to offer researchers irrespective of their role – from
methodologists to CEOs.’
Leslie Townsend, President, Kinesis Survey Technologies
‘The whole point of Market Research is to understand consumer behaviour and decision making.
In the early days of the industry there was very limited science or technology available to support
researchers and their clients in this quest – but we made the best of what there was, and
developed pragmatic approaches, based on the thinking of the time.
Now, with hugely improved science and technology available, how do responsible researchers
and decision makers decide how and when to use new approaches like mobile? How do you
separate the real from the hype, the wheat from the chaff? We all need to be able to make
good decisions about our research methodologies, not be drawn into having to test every new
fashion for ourselves.
The Handbook of Mobile Market Researchcuts through this dilemma by presenting current thinking
clearly, comprehensively, and completely objectively. Armed with this knowledge you will be
able to adopt mobile research methodologies appropriately, and with confidence, knowing what
you’re gaining, and the potential downsides. If only keeping up with all new thinking was this
easy!’
Phyllis Macfarlane, Training in Africa Programme Manager, GfK Verein, and former
Chairman, GfK NOP

‘In this book Ray, Sue, and Navin lift the lid on mobile marketing research to comprehensively
reveal how the various components work and fit together. This is an essential read for any
researcher contemplating or already undertaking mobile data collection.’
Guy Rolfe, Head Mobile Practice, Global Operations, Kantar
‘The most complete guide for mobile market research I’ve ever seen! Informative, educative,
and a must have for any researcher, either beginner or experienced mobile market research
adopter.’
Adriana Rocha, co-founder and CEO of eCGlobal Solutions
‘This book is a comprehensive and no-nonsense approach to the application of mobile survey
technologies within market and social research. It introduces a range of topics related to the
design, collection, and implementation within both qualitative and quantitative methodologies,
outlining best practice and potential challenges within the mobile arena.
Organized into four sections, the book is superbly-written and tackles specific topics on technolo-
gies, applications, ethics, and future directions. An easy-to-digest and example-based approach,
the book is a must for anyone wanting to either better understand or directly conduct mobile
research.
Well done to the authors. This is a first-class reference that will both educate and guide those
in our industry in the most practical and legitimate ways, to utilize the “new normal” of mobile
data collection and utilization. Something for all of us to embrace.’
Suz Allen, R&D Director Sensory & Consumer Science, Asia Pacific, Campbell Arnott’s
‘Mobile market research promises to transform the industry far more than online surveys did,
changing the face of both quantitative and qualitative research. Poynter, York, and Williams have
written the definitive guide for mobile research. Even if a researcher tries to avoid mobile work,
mobile will impact their own approaches, replacing certain methods and changing others. This is
a must-read book for market researchers.’
Jeffrey Henning, president, Researchscape International

The Handbook of
Mobile Market
Research
Tools and Techniques for
Market Researchers
Ray Poynter, Navin Williams,
and Sue York

This edition first published 2014
© 2014 Ray Poynter, Navin Williams, and Sue York
Registered office
John Wiley and Sons Ltd, The Atrium, Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, PO19 8SQ, United Kingdom
For details of our global editorial offices, for customer services and for information about how to apply for
permission to reuse the copyright material in this book please see our website at www.wiley.com.
The right of the authors to be identified as the authors of this work has been asserted in accordance with the
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, except as permitted by the UK
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, without the prior permission of the publisher.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with
standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to
media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at
http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Designations used by companies to distinguish their products are often claimed as trademarks. All brand names and
product names used in this book and on its cover are trade names, service marks, trademark or registered trademarks
of their respective owners. The publisher and the book are not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in
this book. None of the companies referenced within the book have endorsed the book.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing
this book, they make no representations or warranties with the respect to the accuracy or completeness of the
contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular
purpose. It is sold on the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services and
neither the publisher nor the author shall be liable for damages arising herefrom. If professional advice or other
expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional should be sought.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Poynter, Ray.
The handbook of mobile market research : tools and techniques for market researchers /
Ray Poynter, Navin Williams, Sue York.
pages cm
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-1-118-93562-0 (hardback)
1. Marketing research.   2. Mobile commerce.  3. Mobile communication systems.
I. Williams, Navin, 1972–  II. York, Sue, 1968–  III. Title.
HF5415.2.P659 2014
658.8
′
3–dc23
2014022436
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
ISBN 978-1-118-93562-0 (hardback)
ISBN 978-1-118-93577-4 (ebk) ISBN 978-1-118-93576-7 (ebk)
Cover design by Wiley
Set in 11/13pt Gillsans by Aptara Inc., New Delhi, India
Printed in Great Britain by CPI Group (UK) Ltd, Croydon, CR0 4YY / TJ International Ltd, Padstow, Cornwall, UK

Dedication
This book is dedicated to all those working to improve and advance the use and
application of market research in today’s dynamically changing world.



Contents
Foreword.................................................................ix
Introduction..............................................................xi
PART I
Mobile Market Research1
1Overview of Mobile Market Research............................3
2Mobile Research in Action......................................16
3The Technology of Mobile Market Research......................32
PART II
Qualitative and Quantitative Research53
4Mobile Qualitative Research....................................55
5Mobile Forums and Online Focus Groups........................70
6Mobile Diaries and Ethnography................................83
7Mobile Quantitative Research...................................103
8Designing and Conducting Mobile Surveys.......................120
PART III
The Methods and Applications of Mobile Market Research147
9mCAPI – Mobile Computer Assisted Personal Interviewing........149
10mCATI – Mobile Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing......160
11Mixed-Mode Research.........................................171
12Utilizing Passive Data..........................................180
13Panels, Lists, and Communities.................................192
14International Mobile Research..................................206

viiiCONTENTS
PART IV
Researching the Mobile Ecosystem, Ethics, and the Future223
15Researching the Mobile Ecosystem..............................225
16Ethics, Laws, and Guidelines....................................237
17Research-on-Research..........................................246
18The Evolving Picture...........................................252
Glossary.................................................................271
References...............................................................279
About the Authors........................................................283
A Note of Thanks.........................................................285
Index....................................................................287

Foreword
There have been two critical events in recent years that have had a profound effect on
the market research industry.
The first was the ‘internet’ – the advent of online as a research medium and information
source. On the positive side, it brought greater cost-efficiency; provided the platform
for a whole new range of collaborative and social networking services; facilitated the
growth of panels and associated software (which has become a sub-industry now in its
own right); became a source of freely volunteered information, and for many research
projects, particularly those dealing with highly sensitive or personal topics, facilitated a
much higher level of respondent honesty and detail.
On the downside, however, issues of sample duplication, respondent verification, pro-
fessional respondents, and online response behaviour (such as straight-lining, etc.) raised
a series of challenges and quality concerns that, in some cases, have not been fully
resolved, even today.
The second critical event that is having (and will continue to have) a profound effect
on our industry is the development of mobile – not just telephones, but also tablets,
phablets, other portable devices, and the associated ‘app’ industry. These devices now
allow us to capture ‘immediacy’ with technology greatly expanding our ability to measure
‘real-time’ behaviour, rather than reported behaviour.
This ‘immediacy’ also adds a whole new dimension to many of the benefits that the
internet has brought – in many parts of the emerging world (e.g. the African continent),
the mobile phone is currently the default access mechanism to the internet, rather than
fixed line.
In this rapidly evolving communications ecosphere, the traditional question(s) of under-
standing what is the universe, who is the universe (phone buyer or phone user?), what
can/will our sample represent, as well as the newer challenges of determining ‘consent’,
‘awareness’, and ‘privacy’ are all yet to be comprehensively answered and agreed. With
this in mind, the provision of the most up-to-date best practices and guidance is indis-
pensable for anyone who wishes to adopt this methodology for any research project.
As with all new methodological applications, the ‘shifting sands’ nature of the legisla-
tive arena(s) that govern their implementation make it imperative that best (current)
practice guidelines are shared, developed, and improved constantly, so that suggested
policy directives and legislative proposals remain consistent with business needs and
applications.

xFOREWORD
The Handbook of Mobile Market Researchis a companion book to Ray Poynter’sHand-
book of Online and Social Media Researchand provides a real source of current best prac-
tice guidance for those wishing to better understand mobile and include it in their toolkit
of research methodologies. The authors, Ray Poynter, Navin Williams, and Sue York,
bring years of learning, global experience, and a passion for combining new approaches
with rigour. For example Ray and Sue are the editors of ESOMAR’s bookAnswers to
Contemporary Market Research Questions, and Navin is one of the contributors.
The book helps advance the cause of high quality market research by answering your
questions, providing you with guidance, removing your fears, but at the same time high-
lighting the many (evolving) challenges that continue to present themselves with the
adoption of any such new medium. ThisHandbook of Mobile Market Researchis THE
essential and formative guide to better understanding, and optimizing, your adoption of
mobile.
I hope you gain as much value and insight from this second volume in the Handbook
series as we did; ESOMAR is proud and honoured to be associated with this important
reference document, and we look forward to continuing to monitor the evolution of
our industry and providing such pioneering guidance in partnership with Ray, Sue, and
Navin.
F
INNRABEN
ESOMAR Director General

Introduction
Mobile market research is one of the hottest topics in market research today. The
interest in the subject has not been matched by information and advice on utilizing
mobile market research.
Given the speed of change in the mobile ecosystem, for example the increase in the
penetration of mobile devices and the growth and development of smartphones and
tablets, and the number of different ways that market researchers are seeking to use
mobile devices in research, there is a hunger for good information and advice. How-
ever, there is a shortage of published information on: how to conduct mobile market
research, the opportunities, the best practices, and the potential challenges. The advice
that does exist tends to be spread across conference presentations, blogs, white papers,
and articles.
This book addresses the shortfall in material by pulling together the latest thinking, guid-
ance from people conducting mobile market research, academic research, and practical
advice. The book provides a single point of reference for anybody seeking to be involved
in mobile market research, either as a user or provider of research.
WHO THE BOOK IS FOR
This book has been written for market researchers who are aiming to conduct mobile
market research, for users of market research, and for people looking to research
or understand mobile market research. A basic understanding of market research is
assumed, including knowledge of core market research terms and processes. In some
of the more specialist areas, such as international and business-to-business research, a
brief note has been included to ensure that the reader is sharing the same assumptions
as the authors.
Most of the book is based on an assumption that readers will be utilizing market research
platforms, typically, in partnership with fieldwork suppliers and/or access panel com-
panies. Whilst the book reviews some of the issues involved in creating customized
research solutions, this is not its focus. The book is not specifically designed for people
looking to write a research app, or design new mobile question types, or create a new
mobile market research product – although it might provide some useful background
for anybody looking to do one of these.

xiiINTRODUCTION
THE STRUCTURE OF THE BOOK
The book is divided into four parts, to help readers locate material relevant to their
current needs.
PART I: MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
The book starts with an overview of mobile market research, providing a holistic view
of how mobile devices are being used in market research. Part 1 then goes on to look at
mobile market research in action, looking at topics such as brand tracking, ad testing, and
customer satisfaction research. This is followed by a chapter looking at the technology
of mobile market research.
PART II: QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
The second part of the book looks at how market researchers are using mobile devices
in terms of qualitative and quantitative research. The qualitative section starts by provid-
ing an overview of qualitative mobile market research, before focusing on topics such
as online focus groups, online discussions, mobile diaries, and mobile ethnography.
The quantitative section starts with an overview of quantitative mobile market research,
followed by a chapter focusing on designing and conducting mobile surveys.
PART III: THE METHODS AND APPLICATIONS OF MOBILE
MARKET RESEARCH
The third part of the book looks at several aspects of mobile market research, for
example mobile CAPI, mobile CATI, mixed-mode research, using passive data, working
with panels and online communities, and conducting research internationally.
PART IV: RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM, ETHICS, AND
THE FUTURE
The final part of the book is a reference section, providing advice and information on a
range of topics, including researching the mobile ecosystem, the ethics of mobile market
research, and a summary of the research-on-research that has been conducted.
This section also contains a review of the evolving picture. The majority of the book
focuses on mobile market research as it is being conducted at the moment, reserving

INTRODUCTIONxiii
the more speculative and forward looking elements for this chapter in the final part of
the book.
REFERENCES TO BRANDS AND SERVICES
In some parts of the book certain brands and services are mentioned by name, for exam-
ple mobile survey platforms or access panel companies. These references are there to
clarify the sort of organization being referred to; these mentions are not recommen-
dations, and the reference does not imply that these brands or services are better or
worse than other providers.
ONLINE MATERIAL
In order to keep this book to a manageable length, some of the more detailed informa-
tion has been made available online, at www.handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com.
The online material includes an extended glossary, longer versions of the case studies
referred to in the book, and more material on the research-on-research quoted in the
book.
REPETITION
The book has been designed as a reference book and it is likely that many readers will
search for specific topics and chapters, rather than read it cover to cover. Therefore,
a balance has been struck between repeating definitions, caveats, and cases in multiple
places and repeatedly asking the reader to refer to other sections and the glossary. This
does mean some elements appear in more than one place.
A NOTE OF THANKS
In the final part of the book there is a list of the many people who have helped create
this book – helped by supplying material, by reviewing ideas and copy, and by engaging
in discussions about the book.
Special mention should be made to Reg Baker and the University of Georgia’s Principles
of Marketing Research course. This book has benefited from the material created for
the mobile market research course supplied by the University of Georgia, created by
Reg Baker, Ray Poynter, and Navin Williams.



PART I
Mobile Market Research
The first part of this book provides an introduction to mobile market
research, illustrates how it is being used, and explores the technology that
underpins mobile market research.
Chapter 1 is an overview of mobile market research and provides a context
for the rest of the book. The next chapter focuses on how mobile market
research is being used in different contexts, categories, and markets.
The third chapter explores and explains the key technologies being relevant
to mobile market research.
Part I covers:
1.Overview of Mobile Market Research
2.Mobile Research in Action
3.The Technology of Mobile Market Research



1
Overview of Mobile
Market Research
INTRODUCTION
Mobile market research (sometimes abbreviated to MMR) is a topic that had been
forecast as the next big thing in market research for more than ten years. By 2014,
there was widespread agreement that it was finally coming of age and was already having
a major impact on many aspects of market research, from quantitative to qualitative,
and from local to global. In the future, most market researchers are likely to come
into contact with mobile market research in their everyday work and therefore a good
understanding of the opportunities, characteristics, limitations, and challenges of this
mode is essential. Similarly, buyers and users of market research need to be aware of
the implications of some or all of their research being collected via mobile devices.
WHAT DOES MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH MEAN?
Mobile market research refers to participants taking part in market research via mobile
devices and market research about the use of mobile devices.
Until recently the term ‘mobile market research’ was largely synonymous with research
conducted by or about mobile phones. However, since the arrival of additional mobile
devices, such as tablets and phablets, the term ‘mobile market research’ has become
broader.
More specifically, mobile market research typically refers to the following:
1.Quantitative research where the participants complete surveys on their mobile
device.
2.Mixed-mode quantitative studies, where some participants complete surveys via
a PC while others use a mobile device.
3.Quantitative research where participants allow applications on their mobile
device to gather information about them or their environment, referred to as
passive data collection.

4OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
4.Qualitative research, where the mobile device either facilitates communication
(e.g. taking part in an online focus group from a tablet), or facilitates data collec-
tion (e.g. collecting photos and recordings), or a combination of the two.
5.Research communities where the mobile device is a key method of communi-
cation or participation.
6.Face-to-face research where the interviewers are using mobile devices to collect
data, sometimes referred to as mCAPI (CAPI utilizing a mobile device).
Using participants’ mobile phones to take part in CATI interviews is not always classed
as mobile market research, but that might change in the future and a chapter on mCATI
(CATI with mobile phones) is included in this book.
STANDARDIZED SOLUTIONS FOR MOBILE
MARKET RESEARCH
When mobile market research first appeared on the scene, market researchers planning
to use it often had to be very tech savvy and prepared to help develop or test solutions.
However, for most people those days are gone.
Most mobile research is conducted via the international survey platforms such as Con-
firmit, through the mobile services of access panels such as Research Now, or through
a specialist provider such as Revelation, MobileMeasure, or Locately: note – there are
large and growing numbers in each of these categories. For most researchers it is not
necessary to develop their own software solutions. In the more developed research
markets, researchers will tend to use a conventional sample source such as an access
panel, customer list, or community.
WHY THE INTEREST IN MOBILE?
There are four key drivers of the widespread interest in mobile market research:
1.The growing ubiquity of mobile devices.
2.People having their phones with them all the time, facilitating ‘in the moment’
research.
3.Growth in more powerful mobile devices, especially smartphones and tablets.
4.Passive data collection, recording information about participants without their
having to actively enter information.

WHY THE INTEREST IN MOBILE?5
1. THE UBIQUITY OF MOBILE PHONES
Data about the penetration of mobile phones, smartphones, and tablets changes all the
time, but in order to emphasize the scale of the mobile phenomenon, consider the
following data from the ITU’s Measuring the Information Society (ITU 2013) report:
∙
6.8 billion mobile phones estimated to be in use, compared with the global
population of about 7.2 billion.
∙
By the end of 2012, over 50% of the world’s population were living in areas
with at least 3G coverage.
∙
By the end of 2013 there were almost 2 billion mobile broadband subscrip-
tions – with Ericsson forecasting that by the end of 2018 this figure would be
6.5 billion.
The world is quickly moving to a point where every economically active adult who wants
a mobile phone will have one. The trend is very much towards devices with internet
access, further widening the potential for mobile research. However, it should be noted
that 6.8 billion devices does not mean that 6.8 billion people have a mobile device, as
many people have more than one mobile device.
2. ‘IN THE MOMENT’
There is a widespread belief in marketing and market research that interviews conducted
‘in the moment’, for example, when someone is making a purchase, finishing a meal, or
staying at a hotel, will reveal more than a survey conducted at a later date. Traditional
research has relied on participants recalling details of interactions with products, services,
and advertising, days or even weeks after the event. ‘In the moment’ approaches capture
the information while it is still fresh in people’s minds.
Most users of mobile phones have them with them all the time, for example Pew esti-
mated that in 2012, 44% of Americans slept next to their phones (Pew Research Center
2012). This ‘always available’ characteristic of mobile devices finally allows researchers to
conduct studies much closer to the ‘moment of truth’, that is, closer to when a product
or service is being experienced.
3. PUTTING THE ‘SMART’ IN MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Early forms of mobile market research relied on SMS, WAP, or downloaded software
(such as apps written in languages such as Java) to conduct research. These options
were technically limiting (especially in the case of SMS) and sometimes required a high
degree of cooperation from the participant.

6OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
By contrast, the larger, touchscreens of smartphones and the growing popularity of
tablets has greatly increased the range of research that can be conducted via mobile
market research. Similarly, the growth of higher speed internet connections, including
3G, 4G, and Wi-Fi, has enabled mobile devices to be used in a growing number of ways.
Similarly, the standardization of the processes for writing apps, and downloading them
from app stores, has opened up a wide range of alternatives for market research.
4. PASSIVE DATA COLLECTION
Mobile devices, especially smartphones and tablets, can collect a wide variety of infor-
mation as the research participant goes about their normal, everyday life. In most cases,
this is based on the research participant downloading an app onto their device. For
example, a location tracking app could use a phone’s GPS receiver to create a record
of the participant’s journeys to and from work.
Passive data is very attractive to marketers and market researchers because it can collect
a large amount of detailed data about what people do, without burdening participants
with research tasks, and without introducing the biases implicit in asking research par-
ticipants to decide what to report or capture.
A BRIEF HISTORY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Table 1.1 provides a timeline giving a brief history of mobile market research.
Table 1.1  A brief history of mobile market research
Date    Description
1990s   The first serious attempts to use mobile phones for market research appeared in the
1990s, most of which used SMS. Questions were sent to participants via text messaging
and the participants answered via text, typically by entering a single digit, such as 1 for
Agree strongly, 2 for Agree, etc. These surveys needed to be very short. Only a small
percentage of market research projects were conducted using this method because of the
requirement for surveys to be very short and because the interface was considered so
limited.
This method is still in use today, in cases where it meets specific research needs, for
example reaching a broad range of mobile phones in developing economies.
One early innovation with the SMS method was to utilize its ‘in the moment’ potential.
For example, some businesses put up signs inviting users/visitors to text their
satisfaction score to a central location.
(continued)

A BRIEF HISTORY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH7
Table 1.1  (Continued)
Date    Description
2000    As phones became ‘smarter’, acquiring larger screens and some form of internet access
(e.g. WAP) researchers began to use these phones for longer and/or more complex
surveys. By 2001, researchers were reporting success in Japan by capitalizing on
DoCoMo’s early lead in advanced services for mobile phones, sending longer surveys
and incentivizing participants via telephone credits (Cattell 2001).
However, mobile market research remained a small percentage of all market research.
Studies such as the Confirmit Annual Market Research Survey regularly reported mobile
as being less than 1% of all data collected.
With the growth in the ownership of more advanced phones, market researchers explored
two routes to conduct mobile market research. Some researchers preferred to design
software that could be downloaded onto participants’ mobile devices, while others
thought it best to ask participants to connect to the internet via the browser on their
device. This dichotomy exists today and is explored in more detail later in this book.
2005    As BlackBerry phones and internet-enabled PDAs became more common, researchers
started reporting that a small percentage of participants were completing online surveys,
intended for PCs, on their mobile devices. At that time this ‘unintentional’ or
‘accidental’ mobile market research (unintentional on the part of the researcher)
accounted for a very small proportion of online surveys. In the years since, as phones
became smarter/larger and tablets emerged, the proportion of unintentional mobile
surveys has grown substantially. It is now often reported as being in the range of
20–30% of all online surveys.
The qualitative uses of mobile devices expanded with a range of new and interesting
approaches being developed, including mobile diaries and mobile ethnography.
Researchers began using participants’ phones to collect data about their everyday lives –
for example by collecting images and recordings. Researchers also began using
participants’ mobile devices to connect the participants with blogs, bulletin boards,
discussions, and communities.
2007    With the launch of the iPhone, mobile market research moved into a higher gear as
qualitative researchers sought to use the iPhone’s extra features and more participants in
surveys tried to complete online surveys via their device of choice.
In 2008, the appearance of Android phones from companies such as HTC and Samsung
helped ensure that the new generation of smartphones established a critical mass.
2010    The release of the iPad led to a major growth in the penetration of tablets (especially
Apple and Android-based devices). Tablets provided market researchers with still more
features to use and a larger canvas on which to work.
Mobile phones had become common across both the developed and developing world,
and researchers were putting them to ever greater use in both developed and developing
markets.
In developing markets mobile market research tends to focus on feature phones rather
than smartphones, and online surveys are often not an option. One of the trends in the
developing markets is for research to move from face-to-face to mobile, often as mCAPI.
Passive data collection, i.e. data collected from a mobile device without the traditional
asking of questions and submitting of responses, starts to grow, especially in media and
outside conventional market research.

8OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
THE INTERNATIONAL DIMENSION
Different  countries  present  different  opportunities  and  challenges  for  market
researchers utilizing mobile market research. This is also the case for other research
modes, such as online. In the more developed markets (i.e. richer, more techni-
cally developed, and with a more developed market research infrastructure) the
default mobile market research options tend to be smartphones and, increasingly,
tablets, with an assumption that the devices will be able to reliably connect to the
internet.
In the less developed markets (where there tend to be lower incomes per head, tech-
nology is less widely distributed and owned, and there is a less developed market
research infrastructure) the default mobile market research option tends to be the
feature phone. This is accompanied by the assumption that the internet may not be
available reliably and/or continuously. This has led to many researchers continuing to
utilize technologies such as SMS in these markets. For example, in 2011 Bain reported
in Research-Live that Jana (previously TxtEagle) had secured arrangements with 220
mobile operators in 80 countries to collect data via SMS and to use airtime as the
incentive.
However, researchers should note that these definitions imply there are developed and
less developed countries, and in many cases countries do not fit neatly into this sim-
ple division. Some technically advanced countries have relatively weak market research
infrastructures and some less developed countries have well established market research
infrastructures. Researchers should also note that contexts differ depending on local fac-
tors. For example, Australia has a much higher level of internet and smartphone usage,
per head of population, than China. However, Shanghai has a population about the size
of Australia (a little over 20 million) and has a similar level of smartphone and internet
usage. For some target groups, smartphones are an appropriate technology, even in
developing markets.
Researchers should note that the prevalence of feature phones in Africa does not mean
that every aspect of mobile usage is more primitive than in, say, Western Europe. For
example, mobile banking and mobile payments are far more developed in many African
countries than they are in Europe.
When planning an international mobile project it is essential to get an up-to-date
assessment of the current situation in each market, and this is covered more fully
in the chapter that focuses on international research. Key issues that researchers
need to focus on include: the quality, speed, and reliability of mobile internet access;
the penetration of smartphones versus feature phones (and perhaps tablets); the
type of data contracts that are common; and the sort of sample services that are
available.

MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH9
MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Mobile quantitative research can be divided into two broad categories: surveys and
passive data collection. Examples of passive data collection include browsing statistics,
systems usage, and a variety of measures specific to mobile devices, such as geographic
position.
In terms of surveys, mobile market research can be further divided into:
∙
Unintentional mobile
∙
Mobile only surveys
∙
mCAPI
∙
Mixed-mode studies.
UNINTENTIONAL MOBILE
Most market researchers who conduct online surveys are already using mobile market
research, even if they have not decided to, and even if they are not aware of it. Any
online survey, even if not designed for a mobile device, runs the risk of being completed
on a mobile device by some participants – unless specific measures have been taken
to avoid it. This form of mobile market research is referred to as unintentional (or
sometimes as accidental) mobile market research, and the prevalence of unintentional
mobile market research was one of the reasons why by 2014 it was safe to say that
mobile market research had ‘arrived’.
Reliable and consistent figures about the prevalence of unintentional mobile mar-
ket research are hard to obtain. However, the consensus seems to be that in 2014
researchers should expect about 20–30% of online surveys to be completed from a
mobile device.
MOBILE ONLY SURVEYS
A mobile only survey is one where the expectation is that all of the participants will
complete the survey using a mobile device. This is a broad category and includes:
∙
Surveys conducted via the internet using a browser on the mobile device
∙
Surveys conducted via an app downloaded to the mobile device
∙
Surveys conducted via SMS or similar protocols.

10OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Designing mobile surveys requires an understanding of the implications of using different
screen formats and different versions of questions.
mCAPI
CAPI refers to Computer Aided Personal Interviews: interviews that are conducted
face-to-face with an interviewer and a computer. Mobile versions (often called mCAPI),
for example utilizing mobile phones or tablets, offer a new approach to this 30-year-old
method. One of the benefits of using mobile devices for this new form of CAPI is that
the device can often be configured to automatically send the results back to a server,
for example via Wi-Fi or 3G/4G, either during or after data collection.
mCAPI allows multimedia to be integrated into the face-to-face interviewing process,
for example by playing videos or recording video interviews with participants.
MIXED-MODE STUDIES
The terms ‘mixed-mode’, ‘multi-modal’, and ‘hybrid’ refer to studies where more than
one mode of data collection is used. In the case of quantitative mobile market research,
mixed-mode usually refers to an online survey in which some participants complete it
using a PC, some using a tablet, and some via a mobile phone. However, the terms can
refer to studies where participants enter some of their data through one channel, and
other data through another.
The trend in market research is to move towards a platform agnostic approach, i.e.
one where research participants are given as much choice as possible about the sort
of device they use when taking part in research activities, for example using a phone,
tablet or PC. This means choosing software systems that enable the researcher to design
research that works – and produces comparable results – with participants using a wide
variety of devices, including PCs, phones, and tablets.
Mixed-mode studies raise two issues: (a) how to ensure that the survey works on
multiple platforms and (b) whether and how the data can be combined.
MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Mobile qualitative research is comprised of research that is purely mobile and research
that is mixed-mode. The mixed-mode category consists of studies where some of the
participants are using mobile devices and others are using other options, and studies
where mobile is used for a particular stage of the study and another mode used at
another stage (such as PC or face-to-face).

THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM11
Mobile devices have made major inroads into the collection of personal and ethno-
graphic information from participants in qualitative research projects. This type of mobile
qualitative project involves research conducted by the participants, as opposed to
research conducted by and in the presence of the market researcher. Enlisting par-
ticipants as collaborators in the research process is a practice referred sometimes to as
WE-research.
The use of mobile devices can be as simple as asking participants to upload images or
join an online discussion. Or, at the more complex end of the spectrum, the research
may take place over an extended period of time, with the participants collecting a wide
range of diary or ethnographic data, and/or personal reflections, utilizing a variety of
software packages.
MOBILE DEVICES AND COMMUNITIES
Research communities are (according to the 2013 and 2014 GRIT reports) the fastest
growing major new approach to market research (Greenbook 2013b; Greenbook
2014). Research communities are usually private, branded, online communities, often
using both qualitative and quantitative approaches. Mobile devices are increasingly being
used for research (both qualitative and quantitative) with communities and for the man-
agement of the community. Management aspects of communities include: registering
and logging in, sending messages to members, newsletters, portal access, and in some
cases, incentives. Increasingly, the providers of platforms for research communities are
ensuring that they accommodate mobile devices, typically by adopting a device agnostic
approach.
The use of mobile devices in research communities is covered later in the book, in a
chapter on Panels, Lists, and Communities.
THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
The term ‘mobile market research’ tends to be used to describe research conducted
using mobile devices. However, it can also be used to describe research into the mobile
ecosystem. The mobile ecosystem encompasses every aspect of mobile devices and
uses, for example: the way mobile services are provided, the mobile devices themselves,
mobile advertising, mobile shopping, mobile gaming, and mobile social media.
Research into the mobile ecosystem often employs approaches that utilize mobile
devices, for example passive data collection, mobile diaries, and mobile surveys. How-
ever, it can also use more traditional approaches, including focus groups, usability labs,
and conventional tracking surveys.

12OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
The mobile ecosystem has produced the tools that are used in mobile market
research, and the new techniques being developed in fields like mobile gaming, mobile
advertising, mobile marketing, and mobile navigation will in time work their way through
to the world of mobile market research. The mobile ecosystem is also challenging law-
makers and regulators, both because of the speed of its development and because of
its potential to collect vast amounts of sensitive information, and this issue will also have
an impact on market researchers.
THE CHALLENGES OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Given that the arrival of mobile market research has been predicted and evangelized for
several years, and given the importance of mobile phones to modern life, it is perhaps
surprising that it has taken until now for mobile market research to take off.
This section looks at some of the factors that have delayed the adoption of mobile
market research and some that may present challenges in the future.
SHORTER SURVEYS
There is a widespread belief that surveys on mobile phones need to be shorter than
those being conducted via CATI, face-to-face, or PC. This is felt to be because:
∙
People using their mobile devices are potentially going about their daily lives;
an interruption of 20, 30, or 40 minutes is too long.
∙
The devices, phones in particular, are not suitable for extended exercises like
a long survey, although the amount of time people can spend game playing
with mobile devices might suggest otherwise.
∙
People’s phone signal and/or connection may not last for the full length of a
long questionnaire, when using the mobile web for surveys.
However, it is worth remembering that when online surveys first appeared in the mid-
1990s, it was widely assumed that online surveys needed to be shorter than 10 minutes.
Since that time, participants have been trained or incentivized to do much longer surveys
online, or at least a few of them have. Most researchers who have conducted research-
on-research with longer surveys have found few differences between mobile and PC
surveys. See the Research-on-Research chapter for more information.
Because most people believe that mobile questionnaires need to be short, many
research buyers have been reluctant to move their major studies, which currently
employ long questionnaires, to mobile. A number of strategies for tackling these issues,

THE CHALLENGES OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH13
such as breaking surveys into modules (e.g. chunking) are being explored, and these are
also covered later in the book.
THE COST EFFICIENCY OF PC-BASED ONLINE SURVEYS
Online surveys, in which participants use a PC, have become highly optimized in terms
of speed and cost, and tend to have an advantage over mobile surveys. At the moment,
mobile studies typically cost the same as or more than those designed for completion
on a PC, and the total time from design to data delivery tends to be similar (the design,
sample selection, and checking of mobile surveys often take longer, but the fieldwork
can be quicker).
Because mobile research tends to be a little more expensive and because, until recently,
the sampling was a little more limited, it has often been relegated to situations where it
was believed to provide ‘better’ data, such as that from ‘in the moment’ or ethnographic
studies.
However, with the improvement in standardized platforms for mobile, and increased
range of sampling offers, the price/efficiency barrier is being eroded.
LIMITATIONS OF THE DEVICES
Most of the concerns about the limitations of mobile devices relate to phones, not to
tablets. Phones, before smartphones, were seen to have a large number of weaknesses,
particularly in terms of completing surveys. However, even with the latest smartphones,
the screens are small and it has taken a while for the organizations offering mobile market
research to deal with most of the concerns, for example by creating smartphone friendly
versions of the full range of their question types.
VARIABILITY OF MOBILE DEVICES
Mobile phones are much more variable in their characteristics than the sorts of PCs
that online surveys are typically designed for. In terms of PCs, researchers will usually
assume they need to cater for Windows and Mac operating systems, with a screen size
of at least 800 by 600 pixels, and a relatively modern browser. With phones, there
are more operating systems and more configurations than with PCs, and beyond the
smartphones there are tablets, phablets, and feature phones. This complexity makes
designing mobile research more complex and problematic.
However, the current growth and dominance of Google Android and Apple iOS is
making life simpler for those market researchers who are not dealing with feature

14OVERVIEW OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
phones, although the many variations of Android that are used by different man-
ufacturers and devices mean that this is not quite as standardized as it might first
appear.
ACHIEVING PARTICIPANT COOPERATION
Most developed research markets have an infrastructure of access panels, customer
databases, and even online dynamic sampling services, such as river sampling, from
which to source potential participants. This means that participant cooperation is at
least predictable and organized.
Mobile market research is at an earlier stage of development, and while many
researchers have found people willing to take part in surveys or qualitative research,
there has been a less complete infrastructure to support mobile market research.
In around the year 2000, online market research grew because online sampling methods
became widely available, and the sampling options grew because online research was
growing. The same situation now appears to be well underway with mobile sampling
options and mobile market research.
ETHICAL, REGULATORY, AND PRIVACY CONCERNS
Like all forms of research, mobile market research raises a number of ethical, regulatory,
and privacy concerns. As with other modes, some of these concerns are general and
some are specific. These issues are covered more fully later, but the key points are:
∙
The safety of people taking part in surveys (we don’t want people driving and
filling in surveys at the same time).
∙
Defining and achieving informed consent.
∙
Avoiding annoying people: don’t send unwanted or too many messages or send
messages at the wrong time of day (very easy with global studies and/or global
travel).
∙
Avoiding passing on costs to the participants, or using up a significant propor-
tion of participants’ monthly data contract.
∙
Ensuring participant privacy and anonymity.
∙
Ensuring that communications to and from participants are secure.

THE FUTURE FOR MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH15
THE FUTURE FOR MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
It is clear that mobile market research has arrived. A large number of surveys are being
conducted via mobile, some as mobile only, and many as part of mixed-mode online
studies. Most of the major survey platforms have mobile options and there is a growing
body of research-on-research (RoR) suggesting what works and what does not work in
mobile market research.
Mobile market research is having a major impact on some forms of qualitative research
and on research communities and is beginning to help create a range of new and inno-
vative approaches, especially in the areas of ethnography, diaries, and data logging.
Passive data collection is already an important part of media consumption measurement
and is a major business for some non-market research businesses. A number of industry
forecasters expect it to be a major part of the market research mix in the near future.
Mobile market research is not an established method, yet, but it is one that most
researchers will be dealing with as part of their regular, everyday work. Mobile mar-
ket research is no longer a niche, it is a mainstream approach. Many researchers are
forecasting that mobile will become the dominant mode of data collection over the
next few years, while others forecast that online and mobile will merge to become a
single, platform agnostic approach.

2
Mobile Research
in Action
INTRODUCTION
This chapter highlights some of the ways that mobile approaches are being applied to
different types of market research, and how they are being utilized in the context of
different markets and situations.
The areas covered are:
∙
Retail research
∙
Customer experience and satisfaction
∙
Advertising testing
∙
Tracking brands and advertising
∙
Product testing
∙
Advanced quantitative research
∙
B2B research.
The key theme amongst these different strands is that mobile market research is making
significant inroads; broadening the range of people who can be contacted for research
and increasing the ability of market research to get closer to customers.
RETAIL RESEARCH
Mobile devices are having a major impact on retailing (both through online retailing and
the use of mobiles as an aid to in-store shopping) and mobile market research is having
a major impact on retail research. The sorts of changes that mobile market research
is introducing include: increasing and enhancing the mobility of interviewers (for face-
to-face research), utilizing the multimedia functions of mobile devices, collecting passive

RETAIL RESEARCH17
data, using geolocation to locate participants, and enlisting shoppers to participate as
collaborators in research projects.
This section looks at how the following key areas of retail are benefiting from mobile
market research:
∙
Understanding shopping trips and processes
∙
Face-to-face customer research
∙
Retail audits
∙
Mobile shopping
∙
Mystery shopping.
The final part of this section looks at the future of mobile market research in the context
of retail.
UNDERSTANDING SHOPPING TRIPS AND PROCESSES
Understanding shopping trips and processes has been a major challenge for mar-
ket research for many years. Methods of trying to research this aspect of retail have
included:
∙
Surveys and qualitative research that probed participants’ memories, asked
about their intentions, and sought to interpret their responses to alternative
propositions.
∙
Accompanied shops within stores, sometimes augmented with video tracking.
∙
In-store and store exit interviews.
∙
Recruiting shopper panels to record their purchases, initially with paper diaries,
and more recently with scanners and online updating.
∙
Big data analytics, in the form of loyalty card, purchase, and lifestyle data.
Whilst these methods have been useful for some brands, for some types of purchases,
and for some types of retailers, they have left many questions unanswered. Mobile
market research is providing new solutions to many of the most difficult problems,
producing answers that are a combination of better, faster, and cheaper.
One of the key breakthroughs in this area, facilitated by mobile market research,
has been to recruit shoppers to be active participants in market research. As active

18MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
participants, shoppers use their mobile devices, mostly phones, to capture information
during and immediately after the shopping process. This form of participant research
is being conducted both qualitatively and quantitatively, using both active and passive
techniques.
Examples of the sorts of project that are being conducted include:
∙
Shopper diaries. Shoppers use a mobile device to keep a diary of their shop-
ping trips. The diary tasks can include: taking photos and/or videos, describing
shopping intentions, experiences during shopping, and the outcomes from the
shopping. Shopping diaries are typically conducted as qualitative projects. The
data collection can include scanning or taking photos of bills/receipts as well
as products, stores and so on.
∙
Shopping audits. Instead of research participants logging all their purchases
when they reach home, which tends to understate smaller and/or quickly con-
sumed items, participants can use their phones to record purchases ‘in the
moment’. This can be achieved by scanning, taking photos, or using an app or
survey to enter the data.
∙
Quantified shopping. Quantified shopping is the quantitative version of the
mobile shopping diary. Participants use their phones to record where they
go, what they do, what they buy, and how much they pay – often with a
mixture of active and passive data collection. The key differences between
shopping diaries and quantified shopping are the sample sizes (quantitative
shopping tends to use larger samples) and the type of data collected (qual-
itative research captures more unstructured data and quantitative research
captures counts and survey responses), and the type of analysis (quantified
shopping tends to aggregate information, qualitative focuses on individual
examples).
∙
Geolocation and geofencing. One of the newer fields in retail research is to
track a shopper’s location as a record of what they do and to trigger surveys
as they approach or leave a specific location, such as a retail outlet, using
positioning technologies such as GPS. An even newer development is to utilize
short-range location techniques to track shoppers around shopping malls and
stores. This topic is covered in more depth in the Utilizing Passive Data chapter
and is illustrated in the next case study.
∙
Wearable technologies. Wearable cameras, eye-tracking goggles, and devices
like Google Glass provide a more complete, shopper’s eye view of the retail
process, compared with accompanied shopping. And whereas Google Glass
is very much at the exploratory stage, the use of life-logging cameras, such
as Memoto, and mobile eye-tracking devices like Tobii Glasses, is much more
established.

RETAIL RESEARCH19
Using Location Analytics and In-Store Mobile Surveys
to Understand 4th of July Shopping
Locately, a US-based shopper insights firm specializing in location analytics and
location-targeted mobile surveys, conducted a study of US shoppers in Summer
2013, timed to coincide with the US 4th of July celebrations. The study included
1152 participants who had opted to share their GPS location via Locately’s smart-
phone app, and generated 918 in-store mobile survey completes.
The research triggered in-store interviews when Locately’s location analytics tech-
nology detected that the shopper was in a store of interest, which for this study
included mass merchandisers, grocery retailers, and warehouse club stores. Loca-
tion analytics captured data on the shopper journey (passively) and gathered infor-
mation about what happened inside store (via mobile surveys).
The data and insight generated by the research operate at two levels, the macro
and the micro. At the macro level, the data answered questions around the aware-
ness and impact of in-store shopper marketing activations, dollars spent to prepare
for key 4th of July events (such as grilling), and location-specific metrics such as
stores visited, store drive-pasts, time spent in the store, and distance travelled to
reach the store. At the micro level, the data allowed a single participant’s journey
to be illustrated on a map and annotated with survey feedback from the stores
they visited.
The study showed the power of integrating location analytics (e.g. mining passively-
captured location data) and of combining the behavioural data with survey
responses to gain insight into the ‘Why?’
FACE-TO-FACE CUSTOMER RESEARCH
Face-to-face customer research, both inside shops and at store exits, remains a very
important part of researching the retail experience. Face-to-face interviews allow the
researcher to catch respondents when issues are fresh in their minds, in the context of
the retail outlet, and can facilitate speaking to the full range of shoppers, not just those
who answer phone calls, answer the door, or agree to do online or mobile studies.
Mobile devices, especially tablets, have changed the nature of face-to-face retail inter-
viewing, reducing costs, increasing speed and flexibility, and improving the quality of the
research and insights.
For example Tesco, working with market research agency Marketing Sciences, have
implemented a scheme using tablets to interview 100 shoppers a week across their
over 950 UK stores. This study is reported in more detail in the mCAPI chapter.

20MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
RETAIL AUDITS
In the developed markets the process of retail audits is largely automated, in terms
of tracking goods from distributor to store to checkout – although there is still a
considerable amount of manual stock-taking within stores. However, in the less devel-
oped markets retail audits are often slow, expensive, and they are perceived to be of
variable quality. Mobile devices are making inroads in the developing markets to facilitate
faster, cheaper, more accurate audits.
Audits of point of sale, shelf displays, and promotional material are particularly suitable
for mobile research as mobile has the advantage of giving visual proof to the other
parameters being collected.
Display audits are popular in the newer economies where large parts of the retail and
distribution network are perceived as unorganized. For example, as part of their distri-
bution strategy soft drink manufacturers often give away display coolers to stock and
display their products at point of sale. They do this as many outlets couldn’t or wouldn’t
purchase a cooler on their own. However, many of these ‘mom and pop’ retailers
pack the cooler with all their products that need refrigeration, including competing soft
drinks. This creates a compliance role where researchers or specialist teams conduct
compliance audits, utilizing mobile devices.
MOBILE SHOPPING
Mobile shopping and mCommerce have been a growing phenomenon for a number of
years, and the growth looks likely to continue. According to eMarketer (2013), mobile
commerce in the US was worth $25 billion in 2012. Deloitte reported that in 2013,
in the US, 68% of smartphone owners and 63% of tablet owners planned to use their
devices for shopping during the October to December shopping period. Amongst those
who planned to use a smartphone or tablet for shopping, the key uses are shown in
Table 2.1.
Making a purchase was recorded as 31% for phones and 52% for tablets.
Table 2.1  Comparison of uses of smartphones and tablets for shopping
Smartphone usersTablet users
Get store locations, 56%Shop/browse online, 69%
Check/compare prices, 54%Check/compare prices, 58%
Get product information, 47%Get product information, 58%

RETAIL RESEARCH21
The use of mobile devices in shopping and commerce is hot news, because of its size,
its growth, and also its complexity. Mobile devices are used to investigate potential pur-
chases, to navigate to shopping locations, and to make purchases. Some of the infor-
mation about this process is available from what is often termed ‘big data’, for example
transactional data, loyalty programme data, web-tracking data. However, big data only
explains part of the picture, leaving market research to add the ‘Why?’ and ‘What if?’
components.
Research approaches being used in the context of mobile shopping include:
∙
Usability testing, for example, how easy it is to buy from an online site using a
phone or tablet. Usability testing is conducted both quantitatively and qualita-
tively, in central locations (for example usability labs) and remotely.
∙
Passive data collection, finding out how often people use their mobile device,
what they use it for, and where they use it.
1
∙
Mobile diaries and ‘quantified self’ research, using qualitative and/or quantita-
tive approaches. These diaries can be combined with a variety of triggers, for
example, app triggered, researcher triggered, or triggered by the participants
themselves.
MYSTERY SHOPPING
Mobile devices are making major inroads in the area of mystery shopping, including:
∙
Assigning tasks to mystery shoppers.
∙
Facilitating photos and videos being collected, along with time and location
information.
∙
Checking the performance of telephone companies offering mobile services,
especially broadband.
∙
Helping with the logistics of organizing mystery shopping, for example naviga-
tion, and helping monitor the performance of mystery shoppers.
As with all mystery shopping research, care needs to be taken to conform to ethical
and legal guidelines. For example, secretly recording a retail assistant is likely to be illegal
in many situations, and unethical in some of the situations where it is legal.
1
Note, passive data cannot be used to track everything that happens on a mobile device, at least not within
the OS guidelines, and one of the key restrictions is in the area of tracking commercial transactions.

22MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
THE FUTURE OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH AND RETAIL
In terms of retail research, some of the key trends appear to be:
∙
Integrated/single source data, combining multiple data streams about individu-
als, to help identify the contribution of different factors to purchase behaviour.
The data strands might include mobile passive data, transactional information,
internet usage, and loyalty card data.
∙
Wearable technologies, such as life-logging cameras and Google Glass, are
only just beginning to be used in retail research. In the near future these tech-
nologies could provide a complex and comprehensive ‘shopper’s-eye’ view of
the shopping process – especially if integrated with passive data collection.
∙
Geofencing and geolocation are likely to be increasingly important in tracking
the routes taken by shoppers (at the wider geographic level, at the within store
level, and even at the specific retail fixture level) and in terms of triggering
research exercises, for example surveys triggered immediately after shopping
at a specific store.
CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND SATISFACTION
RESEARCH
Mobile devices have opened up new opportunities for companies trying to find out
more about customer satisfaction and/or customer experience. The key to these new
opportunities is the ‘always present’ aspect of mobile devices, particularly phones and
phablets.
Traditional customer satisfaction and experience research has been criticized for suffer-
ing from several key problems:
1.It tends to be based on people’s memory rather than their current or recent
experiences, resulting in inaccurate measurements.
2.Halo effects can swamp actual, real-time experiences and distort the recalled
evaluations. For example, if somebody likes an experience they are prone to say
everything was good. However, if the experience was negative they are prone
to describe most of the experience as negative – this makes the findings less
actionable.
3.The research is often targeted at phenomena that are of little interest to research
participants. For example, questions about how a customer is greeted at the bank
or supermarket can result in blunt and hazy measurements if users do not find
that aspect relevant to them.

CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND SATISFACTION RESEARCH23
4.A company’s area of interest is often too wide to create a meaningful research
instrument. One consequence of the breadth of interest has been the creation
of ever longer customer satisfaction surveys, delivering ever lower levels of sat-
isfaction to the users of the research.
5.Customer satisfaction and experience is a lagged measure; it talks about what
happened, not what is happening. The longer the delay between the measure-
ment and the reporting, the more lagged the information is, making it difficult to
use proactively in managing a brand or service.
The sections that follow look at several ways that the limitations described here are
being addressed via mobile market research. The final section looks at how these devel-
opments might be expanded still further.
CAPTURING EXPERIENCES
Because phones/phablets tend to always be with people they are a great way to capture
experiences as and when they happen. This type of mobile market research tends to
be based on the participant recognizing that they are doing something or experiencing
something and initiating the research activity, for example completing a micro-survey,
taking a photo, or recording a video.
Whilst this research approach can be used to capture any type of experience, it tends
to be particularly helpful when researching phenomena that are not perceived by par-
ticipants as being particularly important or memorable. The Sweaty Moments study
quoted in the Mobile Diaries and Ethnography chapter is a good example of this sort
of research. Participants sent an SMS message to their blog every time they felt sweaty,
and expanded their comments later, allowing the researchers to identify satisfaction
with antiperspirants and deodorants, without having to make these products the overt
topic of the research.
BIAS AND CAPTURING EXPERIENCES
The main concern that has been raised about these mobile approaches to capturing
experiences is that the research participants are too aware of the process, becom-
ing sensitized to the task, and creating too much bias. Whilst most researchers would
agree that this is a concern, the proponents of this type of research make the following
points:
∙
The alternatives that are currently available are substantially more flawed,
typically relying on participants to recall phenomena they barely noticed, and
to answer questions about feelings they may not have experienced.

24MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
∙
The aim of the research is to collect relative measures, not to assign absolute
values to activities and campaigns.
∙
In most projects the research participants are only engaged for between a day
and two weeks, which reduces the sensitizing effects.
EVENT TRIGGERED SATISFACTION SURVEYS
Traditional customer satisfaction studies often look at a broad range of customers’
potential interactions with the brand. For example, a bank might seek to review mailings
received, online banking, ATM usage, phone calls, and visits to the branch, each of these
elements having its own questions in the survey, and its own satisfaction score. This is
one of the reasons that standard customer satisfaction surveys are so long. It also means
that participants might be asked to remember a letter or phone call from some time ago.
Mobile customer satisfaction surveys focus on capturing feedback ‘in the moment’, or
shortly afterwards. Participants are encouraged to complete a research exercise, usually
a survey, when the service or product is used. The survey can be very short because it is
linked to a single activity, and the participant’s memory and views are fresh and focused.
LOCATION TRIGGERED SATISFACTION SURVEYS
Location triggered satisfaction surveys apply geolocation/geofencing approaches to cus-
tomer satisfaction research. With location triggered surveys, the researcher uses a loca-
tion technique to identify that a customer is at a particular branch or location and initiates
a survey invitation. This type of research tends to require an app-based approach to
the research. For example, the 4th of July shopping study quoted earlier in this chapter
used GPS to recognize that participants were in a target store and to initiate a survey,
but devices like Apple’s iBeacon can achieve a similar result.
ALERT/TIMER TRIGGERED SATISFACTION SURVEYS
Another approach to customer satisfaction or experience is to launch an activity, for
example a survey, in response to a message from the researcher or in response to a
request generated from a timer. This approach is particularly relevant to services or
products that are offered/used/consumed continuously, for example electricity, gas, and
local and national government services.
The Mappiness Project (MacKerron and Mourato 2013), summarized in the next case
study, is a good example of how an alert can be used to collect data. In a customer
satisfaction project the survey would focus on satisfaction with, for example, a bank, a
power supplier, a transport system, or a branch of government.

CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND SATISFACTION RESEARCH25
UK Mappiness Project
The Mappiness Project sought to find out what factors affected how happy people
in the UK were. The project was based on an app that was signalled twice a day
asking people to rate how happy they were. The data was combined with phone
coordinates using GPS.
The Mappiness Project was launched in the UK in 2010, and the initial report was
based on over 1 million responses, gathered from almost 22,000 participants.
In addition to the happiness rating, the GPS data allowed the project team to
determine the weather, whether it was daytime or not, and area (divided into
one of nine habitat types, such as ‘Marine and coastal margins’ and ‘Contin-
uous urban’). The app also asked who they were with and what they were
doing.
The general findings were not a surprise: being out of urban areas was associated
with more happiness than being inside the urban areas, and being by the seaside
was best of all.
The published paper is a useful resource in terms of methodology and approaches
to analysis.
TAKING EXPERIENCE AND SATISFACTION FURTHER
One picture of the future was set out by Jan Hofmeyr (2013) at the London MRMW
(Market Research in a Mobile World) Conference in 2013, where he called for:
∙
Short surveys conducted via mobile devices, compatible with SMS or USSD.
∙
Linking surveys to social media data.
∙
Utilizing predictive analytics to move customer satisfaction from a rear view
mirror to a forward looking approach.
Other options about the future are possible and are being explored. These options
include: biometrics and other implied measures of satisfaction, increased tracking of
behaviour, and utilizing insight communities to have discussions with customers about
their perceptions of services.

26MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
ADVERTISING TESTING
Advertising testing is one of the oldest forms of commercial market research and it is
still one of the most important.
Evaluating Mobile Ad Testing
A number of organizations have been testing and evaluating methods of using
mobile devices to test ads. The two cases below are both covered in the Research-
on-Research section of the accompanying website.
In 2012 Ipsos ASI with MobileMeasure created and tested AdShout with three
TV commercials that had been shown in Australia during the 2012 Olympics. The
mobile test concentrated on key measures from the Ipsos ASI standard testing
method and produced very similar results.
In 2011 and 2012 Luma and Research Now tested print ads and TV commercials
with a slightly modified version of Luma’s add+impact test. The results of the TV
commercials were highly comparable. The print ad results were broadly compara-
ble, but with one interesting and relevant difference, the mobile results produced
lower scores for attention grabbing.
Within advertising testing, the most important element, in terms of money spent, is
TV advertising. This is because TV ads (and cinema ads) are very expensive to make,
relatively few ads per brand are created, airtime is very expensive, and the consequences
of running a poor ad are felt to be very large. Most TV ad testing involves showing the
ad as a video – although if early ideas are being tested, the ad might be represented as
a series of story boards or even just a description.
The largest impact of mobile research has been in the area of unintentional mobile,
i.e. participants with mobile devices taking part in surveys intended for PCs. In the early
days of mobile research, unintentional mobile was a potential problem for TV ad testing
because the mobile phones had small screens, restricted bandwidth, and were felt to
only be suitable for short surveys. Consequently, TV ad testing was an early user of
methods to screen out participants seeking to use a mobile device to take part in a
survey.
Most of the limitations of using mobile devices for TV ad testing have lessened. Alter-
native formats for videos are available, bandwidth is better, participants seem willing to
spend more than five minutes taking part in a survey, screens are often larger/clearer
than they were, and participants can use headsets to listen to the ad if they wish.

TRACKING BRANDS AND ADVERTISING27
Consequently, there are a growing number of testing systems that are platform agnostic,
and a few that focus on mobile users.
TRACKING BRANDS AND ADVERTISING
Brand and advertising tracking is one of the largest uses of market research and it is
also one that often uses some of the longest surveys – with some tracking surveys
lasting longer than 60 minutes! Tracking surveys seek to measure some or all of: brand
awareness, brand perceptions, brand usage, and contact with brand advertising. The
analysis of the data often seeks to link advertising expenditure to changes in brand
beliefs, attitudes, or behaviour.
How Many Cereal Packs?
As an illustration of the difference a picture can make, MMR CEO Mat Lintern
highlighted a study they conducted in 2013 with UK housewives. In an online sur-
vey the average claimed number of cereal packets stored at home was lower than
expected. So to check the accuracy of the online data, around 150 participants
were asked to take a photo of the place where they kept their cereal and send
this via MMS to the agency. This showed that, on average, people had almost
twice as many packs of cereal (9 versus 5) than they had claimed based on recall,
and it also showed the proportion of own label was much higher than had been
claimed (35% versus 20%).
Mat commented ‘The recall of the market leading brands in the survey was rea-
sonably accurate, but consumers consistently failed to recall many of their lesser
used cereals – which often tended to be smaller brands and own label products.
The use of photos completely removed any ambiguity, providing accurate data
with minimal input required by the respondents.’
Because many tracking studies were perceived as being too long for mobile, the move-
ment of tracking studies to mobile agnostic platforms has been relatively slow. However,
there is a growing amount of interest in two areas of tracking research:
1.In developing markets, where the majority of tracking studies are conducted face-
to-face, there is a move to mobile to increase quality controls and to produce
faster turnaround speeds.
2.In the more developed markets there is growing discontent with the large,
expensive, and slow tracking studies, with calls to move to more agile solutions,
typically ones that are either mobile friendly or in some cases mobile specific.

28MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
PRODUCT TESTING
Product testing has adopted mobile market research in a number of interesting ways,
partly because the barriers are seen to be lower and partly because of the specific
benefits of mobile market research. One of the reasons that mobile research is seen
as appropriate for product testing is that the surveys tend to be shorter than tracking
studies. The main limits have been where large images or videos were needed, but
these restrictions are diminishing.
IN USE TESTING
When the product being tested is something the participant is going to use, mobile
research can capture information throughout the usage experience. This information
can include survey responses, multimedia, and qualitative feedback. For example, in a
face cream test the participant might enter a small diary note every time they use it,
along with a picture of the product and/or their own face.
ADVANCED QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
The main reason to conduct an advanced technique, like conjoint analysis, via mobile
devices is to extend the range of people who can be reached and to increase the speed
in which the results can be achieved. In Western markets this typically means reaching
younger/busier people. In developing markets it can mean the difference between being
able to use an advanced technique (such as adaptive surveys) and not being able to,
because PC-based solutions may not be available.
The limitations of using mobile devices for advanced quantitative research techniques,
such as discrete choice modelling, have tended to be:
∙
If the questionnaire requires specialist data collection software, will it run on
the devices that participants are likely to have?
∙
If the questionnaire requires a large screen it may not render in a usable way
on a small screen, especially a phone screen.
∙
The questionnaires for some advanced quantitative approaches are quite long,
so there was a concern that they might not be suitable for mobile.
CREATING MOBILE FRIENDLY AND MOBILE SPECIFIC
ADVANCED QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
As well as recognizing that most advanced software packages support mobiles and that
mobile devices now have larger screens, there have been innovations in the way that
research projects are designed and implemented.

B2B (BUSINESS TO BUSINESS) RESEARCH29
Key innovations include:
1.Shorter/lighter forms of advanced methods. For example, some researchers
have been utilizing discrete choice studies with just three options per screen
and just three screens per participant. This method allows the researcher
to reach mobile audiences and still utilize leading edge analysis tools. For
example, see the case study from SKIM (Loosschilder & Ashraf), at www.
handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com.
2.Alternative evaluations. The fashion for the last 15 years has been towards dis-
crete choice and away from ranking and rating. However, some researchers have
shown that they can use ratings-based conjoint to allow concepts to be displayed
one at a time on the screen of a phone and capture the information required
to analyse the attributes and levels.
3.Implicit Association Testing (IAT). Implicit association testing is a research
approach developed from social psychology that measures the association
between concepts, based on the time it takes to respond. Social psychologists
have shown that concepts that are associated are answered more quickly than
dissonant ones. IAT has been available for online surveys via PCs for a few years,
but more recently researchers have been using it specifically for mobiles.
B2B (BUSINESS TO BUSINESS) RESEARCH
B2B is an example of a category of research that shares many characteristics with general
market research, but which also has some nuances and features that are either unique
to its sector, or which need to be designed, implemented, or interpreted differently.
SAMPLING ISSUES
B2B sampling is often more challenging than consumer research. Problems can
include:
∙
Absence of a sample frame.
∙
Very large differences in the size of businesses.
∙
Deciding who to sample within a business.
∙
Concerns that access panels for B2B research are not as fit for purpose as
consumer access panels.
An example of the challenges facing B2B researchers can be illustrated by the market
research industry itself. Although the industry comprises tens of thousands of companies,
many of which employ fewer than ten people, over 40% of the revenue of the industry

30MOBILE RESEARCH IN ACTION
is accounted for by the largest six agencies (Nielsen, Kantar, GfK, Ipsos, Gartner, and IMS
Health). The challenge for a researcher is how to sample the industry, who to interview
in the large and, in particular, the largest companies, and how to combine the data from
the different sized agencies.
However, sometimes B2B studies can be simpler to organize than a consumer project.
For example, if the study is being conducted with a customer list, and if the list has email
addresses and telephone numbers, and if the client has a positive relationship with their
customers, the project might compare favourably with consumer research.
VARIATIONS IN MOBILE DEVICES
Different business sectors and different companies make different choices about the
types of hardware and operating systems they use. If a B2B mobile project excluded
BlackBerry users, it might introduce significant biases if this resulted in a group of com-
panies that are still using BlackBerry devices being excluded from the study. Information
about which companies are using which types of mobile device is often hard to obtain.
ETHICS AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
B2B researchers are usually aware of the need to understand and comply with privacy
and competition laws. However, in different countries the boundaries between com-
petitive intelligence and industrial espionage are different, and the legal consequences
of the difference can be severe.
The mobile devices used by participants in B2B research (particularly for quantitative
research and auto-ethnography) are often owned and paid for by their employers, which
raises potential ethical issues about asking participants to use their mobile devices to take
part in research projects.
SUMMARY
This chapter has illustrated the many ways that mobile market research is already making
inroads into different aspects of market research. The key points that need to be kept
in mind are:
∙
Mobile market research is becoming a key feature of most market research
fields, either through a move towards platform agnostic research or to achieve
mobile specific benefits.
∙
The move towards platform agnostic research has reduced the number of
types of projects that can only be run via PCs.

SUMMARY31
∙
In many cases, such as with tracking studies, the main limitation in making
studies mobile friendly is felt to be the survey length, especially for surveys
over 20 minutes.
∙
The move towards platform agnostic research is the result of a combination
of pull and push. The push is represented by researchers looking to widen
the range of participants able to take part in research projects. The pull is
represented by the fact that something in the range of 20–30% of participants
are choosing to use a mobile device to take part in research projects.
∙
The move towards specifically mobile research is particularly relevant when
using mobile devices to capture ‘in the moment’ information and feedback,
often by enlisting the participant as a collaborative partner in the research.
∙
In the newer, less developed markets, mobile research is also being used to
replace slower and relatively expensive forms of research, such as paper ques-
tionnaires, administered via face-to-face interviews.

3
The Technology of
Mobile Market Research
INTRODUCTION
This chapter looks at the hardware and software that define today’s mobile world, in the
context of what market researchers might want to know. Given the speed that mobile
technology is advancing, the book does not seek to be a technical manual; it aims to
create a framework of understanding.
Topics covered in this section include:
∙
Types of mobile devices
∙
Connecting with mobile participants
∙
The mobile ecosystem
∙
The features of mobile phones
∙
Mobile operating systems
∙
Location-based services.
This chapter focuses on technologies that are in use currently and that impact the world
of market research. Beyond today’s technologies there are a variety of new innovations,
for example the use of wearable technologies and biometrics. These advances are cov-
ered as part of the Evolving Picture chapter towards the end of the book.
TYPES OF MOBILE DEVICES
There are a variety of mobile devices that are of interest to market researchers. Each
device has something in common with the other mobile devices, but each also has
something unique.
From a research point of view, mobile devices can be thought of as falling into one of
three broad categories:

TYPES OF MOBILE DEVICES33
∙
Smartphones
∙
Feature phones
∙
Tablets (including PDAs and phablets).
There are also other devices such as wearable technologies (e.g. Garmin Vivofit and
Google Glass) and GPS navigation systems that are mobile, but are not yet part of the
standard market research tool kit.
SMARTPHONES
The definition of a smartphone has evolved considerably over the last ten years. Initially,
the high-end phones introduced by companies like Nokia, with colour screens and
cameras, were considered ‘smart’. Over the next few years the features that defined a
smartphone expanded to include email, web browsing, business integration, keyboards,
and touchscreens. Today, the term ‘smartphone’ often refers to either an Apple iPhone
or a phone with a touchscreen running the Android operating system, or an alternative
such as the Windows Phone operating system.
Some key milestones in the evolution of smartphones are shown in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1  Key milestones in the evolution of smartphones
DateDescriptionImpact
2002Colour and larger displays appear on mobile phones.
Cameras become common on premium phones.
Arrival of camera phones
2003More phones with a camera sold than standalone
cameras.
Launch of BlackBerry, with push email, web
browsing, and wireless services.
Arrival of the business
phones, driving data usage
on mobiles
2007iPhone appears, creating an alternative definition of
‘smart’.
Start of the touch
revolution
2008Android smartphones, such as those made by HTC
and Samsung appear.
Apple’s App Store launched, changing the way apps
are accessed.
Android makes ‘smart’
affordable.
Apps go mainstream.
2010Apple’s iPad appears, followed by tablets running the
Android operating system.
Start of the tablet
revolution
2011Samsung Galaxy Note launched, a phone with a
screen over 5 inches.
Arrival of phablets
2013Android becomes the most common operating system
on new phones.
The rise of a dominant
OS?

34THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
It should be kept in mind (when designing mobile market research) that a smartphone
ceases to be so ‘smart’ if it does not have a reliable and affordable connection to the
internet and if the user of the phone is not familiar with the core features that make it
‘smart’.
At the time of writing this book, the majority of smartphones use one of two operating
systems, Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS, which are also the two leading operating
systems for tablets. This standardization makes market research easier to organize, com-
pared with a situation where there are multiple operating systems. However, not every
web browsing phone uses these two operating systems. The 2013 GRIT Consumer
Participation in Research Report (Greenbook 2013a) estimated that about only 55% of
its global survey invitations served to mobile devices were to iOS and Android devices.
For most research projects, the question is not about defining what a smartphone is, but
determining whether the phones that the research participants have are ‘smart enough’,
and whether they can be cost effectively utilized.
FEATURE PHONES
A ‘feature phone’ is a term that is used to describe any phone that is not a smartphone,
which is not a particularly useful definition as it covers a vast range of devices. A feature
phone can be a very basic phone, with little more than the ability to make phone calls
and send SMS text messages, or it may be as feature rich as a smartphone. Some
use the term ‘feature phone’ to describe the more sophisticated phones that are not
smartphones, reserving the term ‘dumb phone’ for the more basic types of phone.
One of the complexities of utilizing feature phones for mobile market research is their
variability. In the world of feature phones the hardware varies, the range of features
varies, their ability to connect to the internet varies, and their operating systems vary.
TIP:The term ‘feature phone’ does not really describe a type of phone, it is a collection
of everything that is not a smartphone. If feature phones are going to be used for a
mobile market research project the definition needs to be more precise, describing the
types of phones and features that will be used.
MARKET RESEARCH AND FEATURE PHONES
When researchers talk about conducting surveys suitable for a feature phone they tend
to be referring to one of the following:
(a)Surveys utilizing SMS

TYPES OF MOBILE DEVICES35
(b)Surveys using a web-browser on the phone, typically without a large screen,
without a touchscreen, and with limited interactivity
(c)Surveys based on downloading an app.
Globally, there are more people using feature phones than smartphones and this is
likely to remain the case for a few a more years, especially in emerging markets. In Q3
of 2013 Gartner reported that 45% of global new phone sales were feature phones. In
India, IDC reported that about 80% of new phone sales in Q3 of 2013 were feature
phones. Mobile market research projects that try to be broadly representative of a
whole market, especially developing markets, must accommodate feature phones.
Although the majority of surveys conducted via mobile devices in the developed markets
utilize smartphones (usually as a mixed-mode option with online research), there are
tens of millions of surveys being conducted globally via feature phones.
It is also important to note they there are a large number of qualitative projects, for
example mobile diary projects, being conducted using feature phones.
TABLETS (INCLUDING PDAs AND PHABLETS)
This section reviews those mobile devices that are not phones and are not consid-
ered PCs. This section does not discuss laptops or netbooks, even though some might
consider them to be ‘mobile devices’.
Tablets
The earliest tablets were introduced before 2000. However, the modern tablet was
launched by the introduction of the Apple iPad in 2010. The iPad was quickly followed
by other similar tablets, many of them using the Android operating system.
The key features of tablets, in terms of mobile market research, are:
1.Touchscreens. Tablets have touchscreens, larger than a phone, allowing a wide
range of question designs and stimuli to be used.
2.Size. Tablets generally have dimensions in the range of 7–11 inches.
3.Internet connectivity. Some tablets have 3G or 4G connectivity, but many of
them only have Wi-Fi connectivity. Tablets that only have Wi-Fi connectivity
can only connect to the internet (e.g. to complete an online survey) when there
is a suitable Wi-Fi service available.
4.SMS. Those tablets that do not have a SIM (i.e. are not connected to the mobile
phone network) cannot easily send and receive SMS messages.

36THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
5.Standard operating systems. Most tablets currently being sold and most of the
installed base (installed base refers to devices in use, not just to those bought
recently) use one of the two leading operating systems, such as Apple’s iOS
or Google’s Android, which are also the two leading operating systems for
smartphones.
PDA (Personal Digital Assistant)
PDAs have been around almost as long as mobile phones, with products such as the
Palm Pilot, the Apple Newton, and the Psion range. The concept behind PDAs was to
provide miniaturized PCs, typically, designed for specific uses. These days PDAs tend to
be used for highly specialized tasks, for example courier or delivery staff sometimes use
PDAs to record and track shipments. One area where PDAs may continue to have an
advantage is where security is critical. In these cases, the fact that the PDA has no other
use, and is not a phone, can be an advantage – such as staff conducting meter readings
for utilities like water, electricity, and gas.
As smartphones have become more powerful, and with the introduction of tablets,
PDAs have become less relevant to the world of market research.
Phablets
A recent phenomenon has been the arrival of the so-called ‘phablet’ (occasionally
referred to as a padphone). The phablet is a fusion device that combines the attributes
of a phone and a tablet. Phablets may be loosely defined as a mobile phone with a
screen size of between five inches and seven inches. Anything larger than seven inches
is usually referred to as a tablet.
THE LINK BETWEEN DEVICES AND MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Within the context of mobile market research the term ‘mobile device’ mostly refers
to feature phones, smartphones, tablets, and phablets. Different mobile devices have
different characteristics that influence how they are used in market research projects.
For example, a feature phone is unlikely to have a large touchscreen and a large tablet
is not typically carried everywhere by its owner.
The design of a specific mobile project needs to balance the needs of the research with
the mobile devices available. Researchers have to match the research to the devices the
participants have, or select participants who have the right types of mobile devices. If
the research plans to use high-end functions, for example those found on smartphones,
phablets, and tablets, then the users of feature phones will have to either be screened
out or offered a version of the study that will run on their device. In either case, the
researcher may be introducing biases into the results. The researcher needs to ensure
that whatever research applications are used in the study work correctly on all device
types likely to be used by study participants.

CONNECTING WITH MOBILE PARTICIPANTS37
CONNECTING WITH MOBILE PARTICIPANTS
There are four key methods that market researchers use to connect with participants:
1.Mobile web or mobile internet
2.Short Message Service (SMS/Text), and to a lesser extent USSD
3.Voice
4.Mobile applications.
MOBILE WEB OR MOBILE INTERNET
The mobile web, or mobile internet, works like the ‘normal’ web where a URL or web
address gives access to an internet web page. Participants use their mobile device to
go online via a browser to take part in research activities such as discussions or surveys.
Mobile devices come in multiple sizes and screen resolutions, and web pages can render
poorly on mobile screens (particularly small screens). As a result, it is important that
online research applications are optimized for smaller screens.
Since different participants are likely to be using devices with different screen sizes,
research applications often use techniques such as auto-detection of the operating sys-
tem and screen size to render correctly for each specific device. One key element of
this optimization process involves ensuring that the mobile version is ‘big finger’ friendly,
making objects large enough to tap easily.
On touchscreen devices there are a number of elements that have become intuitive to
users, such as tap and swipe. For example, swiping right to move to the next page and
swiping down to reveal more of the page. A key part of making a research platform
mobile friendly is to ensure that it uses these mobile intuitive elements.
If the research participants are using feature phones, then the available options are more
limited. Most feature phones have smaller screens than smartphones and usually feature
phones do not have touchscreens. This means that some of the more engaging types of
questions and activities that might be used on a smartphone or PC either do not work
or function very differently on feature phones.
SMS/TEXT
SMS, Short Messaging Service, or simply ‘text’, is a mobile protocol that allows users to
send and receive text messages. In its traditional format, SMS has a maximum of 160
characters for single byte languages (e.g. English, French, and German) and 70 charac-
ters for double byte languages (e.g. non-Roman script languages such as Mandarin and
Japanese).

38THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
There is an enhanced form of SMS called MMS that can carry photos and videos as part
of the SMS message. However, MMS is not as standardized as SMS and is not accessible
to all consumer mobile phones, and not all users have a suitable contract or knowledge
to use MMS.
Before the advent of the mobile web, SMS was the core of mobile market research
surveys, and it is still used for some research projects, amounting to millions of interviews
every year. SMS can also be used to initiate an activity, for example the link to a survey
can be sent via SMS, allowing the user to take part in the survey when they have access
to the mobile web, or reminding users to participate in a research activity, such as a
diary or online discussion.
SMS is very limiting for market research, with researchers often restricting question-
naires to fewer than six questions and the questions usually need to be very simple. For
example, an SMS questionnaire might just consist of Yes/No questions or scales with
single code answers.
Another protocol that is being used with basic phones is USSD. USSD allows a partici-
pant’s phone to be connected to the researcher’s computer via a gateway, allowing for
messages of up to 182 characters to be sent backwards and forwards. Some agencies
have had success using this method for research surveys, particularly in countries where
smartphones and/or internet access are relatively rare, such as many countries in Africa.
MOBILE VOICE
Mobile voice is a protocol allowing users to make and receive voice calls on mobile
phones and phablets, but is not always practical on tablets. Mobile voice is widely used
for phone-based interviews such as CATI (Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing)
or depth interviews on mobile phones. Mobile voice is covered in the mCATI chapter.
Mobile voice can be an important support element in mCAPI and mobile qualitative
projects. Voice can also be offered as a support line for participants in quantitative
projects, subject to not overloading the support team and taking into account the cost
implications.
Another use of mobile voice is via VOIP systems and conferencing systems, such as
Skype, Google Hangouts, and GoToMeeting.
MOBILE APPLICATIONS
Mobile applications, or simply ‘apps’, are small programs stored on a mobile device. Apps
make it possible to extend the range of tasks a mobile device can offer or support. Apps
can offer something as simple as showing the time as an analogue image, or they can

THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM39
support more complex tasks such as playing games or collecting data for a research
study. Apps may be pre-installed on a mobile device or they can be downloaded onto
a mobile device from an app store.
Apps designed for mobile market research have some important advantages over the
mobile web. For example, they can prompt the user to take a survey (perhaps triggered
by a time alert or GPS information) and they do not necessarily require the device to
be linked to the internet at the time the data collection is taking place.
Organizations creating apps can embed code from analytics companies, such as Flurry
and comScore, that can be used to collect data from mobile devices and transfer it to
the analytics company.
There are two key disadvantages to apps:
1.They require participants to download the app (introducing issues of confidence
and competence).
2.They need to be specifically written for each type of device used in the research.
These two limitations are less of a concern for qualitative research, where the samples
are smaller (so more support can be offered to help download the app).
THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
The mobile ecosystem is complex and dynamic; however, it can be broadly divided into
three key players/providers:
1.Mobile service providers
2.Device manufacturers and brands
3.Third-party service providers.
The details within each of these three headings change rapidly, so the facts, figures, and
names quoted in this section reflect a moment in time. A more up-to-date picture is
available from the internet, for example from the ITU (www.itu.int).
MOBILE SERVICE PROVIDERS
The mobile service providers are the organizations that connect mobile devices to
the telephone network and to other mobile devices. Mobile service providers are also
known as wireless service providers, mobile network operators, mobile network carri-
ers, and other similar names.

40THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
The key mobile service providers have access to a radio spectrum licence, a network
of radio masts, and a business model for selling access to the network. If a mobile
service provider does not own its own radio spectrum licence or infrastructure (e.g.
if it buys or rents these from other companies) then it is known as a ‘mobile virtual
network operator’. From a researcher’s point of view, there is little difference whether
an organization is a mobile service provider or virtual provider.
The services provided by the mobile service providers include voice calls, data access
(e.g. 2G/GPRS, 3G, and 4G), SMS messaging, and a range of additional services. The
pricing models and rules for connecting to a network differ from country to country,
and usually from one provider to another.
The prices charged and the way contracts are organized varies widely by country. In
some countries the receiver of a call pays part of the charge, in many countries the
receiver pays nothing. In some countries SMS and data are built into the typical contract,
in others, they are considered ‘extras’. In some countries some services are limited to
‘within network’ connections, i.e. the user can only connect to people who are with
the same mobile service provider, or the price for within network connection is very
different from an out of network connection.
Mobile service providers, typically, charge on either a prepay system (where the user
buys credit) or a contract basis (where the user pays a fixed amount and/or an amount
for services used). Many service providers offer both types of pricing models.
In many markets, subscribers obtain their handset directly from the service provider.
Service providers in these markets often keep prices low by absorbing some or all of
the initial costs for the handset, but they thereby tie the customer into a 12-, 18-, or
24-month contract. In other markets, subscribers buy a handset from a retail source and
the phone services from a mobile provider.
The key issues for mobile market research include network coverage, reliability, and cost
of access to the mobile web. One key question is whether it will cost the participant
money to take part in the research, and if that cost is not trivial, how to reimburse
the participant. In markets where people tend to have comprehensive contracts, SMS
contact and mobile web usage may effectively be free (if the participants do not exceed
their monthly quota). But, if the participants are on a ‘pay as you go’ contract, there will
be costs, especially if large amounts of data are moved (e.g. if videos are downloaded
or uploaded).
DEVICE MANUFACTURERS AND BRANDS
The mobile device manufacturers and brands are the consumer electronics companies
that provide the phones and tablets that people use. This is a highly competitive area

THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM41
and each brand has invested heavily in the technology, branding, and positioning of
their mobile phones and other mobile devices. Over the last few years there have been
major changes in which brands are the most popular, for example Nokia, BlackBerry,
Motorola, Ericsson have all had periods when they were world beaters, and times of
trouble. Brands like Samsung and Apple are currently in the ascendency.
In terms of mobile phones, innovation has been a key driver of the market since the
introduction of digital networks in the early 1990s. Handset manufacturers vying for
consumer sales introduced cameras, QWERTY keyboards, large screens, colour screens,
games,music,GPS,andmuchmore.
Different handsets, even from the same manufacturer, can have different features and
functions. For example, one handset may have a large touchscreen with 4G capabilities;
another handset may have a small screen, a numeric keypad, and limited access to
the internet. Indeed, except for the manufacturers who focus solely on smartphones,
providing a wide range of handsets has often been seen as a key part of a mobile handset
marketing strategy.
The data on current sales of handsets is of interest to mobile market researchers, but it
is only part of the story. The key to designing mobile research is knowing what phones
are in use, a number referred to as the installed base. Sales data only reflects a small
proportion of the installed base. For example, in 2013 the global sales of Android phones
exceeded that of Apple iPhones. However, the GRIT Consumer Participation Report
suggested that in 2013 researchers were more likely to encounter an iPhone than an
Android phone when conducting global market research.
From a mobile market research point of view, knowing about the sorts of handsets
that research participants are likely to be using is key to designing mobile research that
is going to work. If most of the phones are feature phones, the research needs to be
designed for feature phones.
THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDERS
The term ‘third-party service provider’ refers to a company that provides a variety of
goods and services to mobile consumers via other companies’ mobile networks. These
goods and services are delivered via the mobile web and/or are downloaded onto
the mobile device as an app. Examples of these third-party services include health and
exercise services like RunKeeper and MyFitnessPal, games such as Angry Birds, and
location services like Glympse.
Third-party services can come preloaded or embedded as part of a network’s service
offer. For example, in Kenya, a mobile money transfer service called M-Pesa comes
preloaded and accessible to mobile customers using the Safaricom network.

42THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Table 3.2  Features of mobile phones (early 2014)
Mainly SmartphonesSmartphones and Feature Phones
GPS
Full QWERTY touch keypad
Dual camera [i.e. front and back facing]
Enhanced cameras and video recording
3G/4G
Tethering/portable hotspot
Large screen
Touchscreen
Gyroscope
Accelerometer
NFC [Near Field Communication]
SMS
MMS
Colour screen
Camera with video recording
Apps (e.g. games)
Bluetooth
Web access
Speaker
Audio recording/microphone
Mobile surveys and discussions, whether accessed via mobile browsers or apps, are
examples of services from third-party providers. In the world of market research, these
services are often third-party in two senses of the term. They are third-party in the
sense they are not provided by the mobile service providers or handset manufacturers,
and they can be third-party in the sense that a market research company may have
obtained them from another organization, such as a panel company or market research
software platform provider.
THE FEATURES OF MOBILE PHONES
This section looks at the features of mobile phones and the key ways that market
researchers use phones as a mode of data collection.
Mobile phone features vary between one device and another, and the list of features
is continually evolving. Some core components like voice calling, SMS, colour screens,
and cameras have become standard across handsets. But other features appear and
sometimes disappear, such as radio receivers in phones, which are less common in
smartphones than in modern feature phones.
Table 3.2 shows a list of some of the commonly found features of mobile phones in
early 2014 – focusing on those relevant to mobile market research. The features are
divided into those that are mainly found in smartphones and those found across a
broader set of both smart and feature phones. Note that the terms used in Table 3.2,
and elsewhere in this chapter, are explained more fully in the glossary.
Market researchers usually use one of three channels to conduct their research with
participants:

THE FEATURES OF MOBILE PHONES43
1.SMS
2.Mobile web; or
3.Apps.
1. STUDIES VIA SMS AND MMS
SMS was the first method used to conduct mobile market research, but it is now the
least used channel. However, it is still used for some types of projects and in some
regions. Studies that use SMS are able to communicate with participants using all types
of phones, not just those with the more sophisticated phones.
SMS surveys are normally conducted via a market research platform, which can be based
on the researcher’s computers/servers, or quite often accessed as SaaS (Software as a
Service, i.e. a service running on somebody else’s computers, often via The Cloud) and
connected to an SMS gateway. The researcher designs and deploys the survey via a
research platform, which deals with sending the survey to the participants as a series
of SMS messages. The survey platform needs access to the mobile phone numbers of
the participants in order to conduct the research, just as online studies often use email
addresses.
SMS can be used in some types of qualitative research, for example a simple diary
study could be conducted via SMS. If the project requires participants to see or upload
images or videos, MMS (a variant of SMS) can be used. However, not everybody is able
or willing to use MMS, and MMS can create higher costs for participants.
2. STUDIES VIA MOBILE WEB
The mobile web can be reached from any mobile device that has a browser and a
connection to the internet, either via a data service or Wi-Fi. A modern research plat-
form should have the capability to detect the configuration of the participant’s device
(e.g. the type of phone, the operating system, and the screen size) and render its pages
appropriately.
Features of the device that may be important to the researcher include:
∙
The size of the screen.If small screens are going to be used, the survey
design and platform need to accommodate this.
∙
The presence of a touchscreen.If the device has a touchscreen then
options such as drag and drop are easier to use than they are on a non-
touchscreen device.

44THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
∙
How images and recordings are downloaded and played.
∙
How images and recordings are uploaded.
∙
How other information from the phone can be shared, such as information
about the phone’s location.
3. STUDIES VIA APPS
In order to use apps for research it is usually necessary for participants to download the
app onto their device. This can raise issues of willingness and competence, for example,
not everybody is happy to download a research app and not everybody is able to.
When using an app for research, all of the features of the phone or tablet are potentially
available, including:
∙
GPS to locate the participant, or to initiate a survey.
∙
Using the camera to capture photos or video.
∙
The sensors on the phone like its gyroscope, accelerometer, microphone, and
environmental sensors can be used to collect additional information.
∙
Tracking the phone’s usage, for example, calls made, locations visited, websites
viewed, and apps used.
When using apps, a variety of triggers can be employed to improve the quality of data
being collected. For example, apps can initiate reminders to do specific tasks or request
a specific activity to be undertaken. Apps can allow the research to use features on the
phone to create a gamified or interactive experience.
A key benefit of app-based research is that some of them can function with or without
a connection to the internet. However, a connection to the internet will usually be
required at some point in order to upload the data.
When using a research app there tends to be a trade-off between a standardized
research app that can be used without much setup time or costs and a custom built
app that can access more of the phone’s features and deliver precisely what the
researcher wants, but typically at a higher cost and requiring a longer development
period.
MOBILE OPERATING SYSTEMS
All mobile devices have an operating system or OS, just as all computers have an operat-
ing system. However, unlike PCs, where the majority of computers use either Microsoft

MOBILE OPERATING SYSTEMS45
Windows or Apple OS X, the mobile world has been highly fragmented with a much
larger number of operating systems.
Before the rise of smartphones, the operating systems of phones were less visible and
more closely linked to a specific manufacturer. However, in terms of smartphones and
tablets, the operating systems are more visible and a more widely discussed feature of
device choice and status.
The sections that follow provide a brief overview of the key mobile (phone and tablet)
operating systems.
ANDROID
Android was created by Google as their entry into mobile operating systems in 2007.
In just a few years, Android has successfully overtaken Nokia’s Symbian to become the
most commonly installed operating system on new mobile devices.
Android was the first major mobile operating system to be offered free to handset man-
ufacturers. Being free, coupled with Google services like maps and email, it became an
almost overnight success. Several manufacturers who were building and selling hand-
sets using their own in-house operating systems abandoned their own solutions and
adopted the Android platform. Being a new operating system, Android was able to
learn from the market and was able to build a system that is widely seen as user friendly
and technologically superior to most of the other options.
Android is a leading operating system for both smartphones and tablets, which has
helped increase the level of standardization in the market. However, the standardization
of Android is not complete, and there are a wide variety of versions of Android in
use, both because manufacturers can implement variations and because users tend to
have a wide variety of generations of Android. Android is updated frequently; with the
versions having quirky names like ‘Gingerbread’, ‘Ice Cream Sandwich’, and ‘Jelly Bean’.
Many users of Android devices do not update their operating system and others only
update it occasionally.
APPLE’S iOS
Apple’s entry into the mobile world came in 2006 via the iPhone, running its own
operating system called iOS. The iPhone launched the touchscreen revolution. Although
touchscreens were in use before the iPhone, Apple was the first to successfully build
a user friendly operating system solely based on touch. In addition, Apple integrated
their iTunes store to distribute content exclusively to iOS users. In 2008, they opened
up content creation for third parties, which rapidly expanded their library of content,
making it a valued and envied asset of the iOS platform.

46THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
The Apple iPad and iPad Mini also use the iOS operating system, providing standard-
ization across the Apple phone and tablet range.
MICROSOFT MOBILE PHONE OS
Windows Phone was launched by Microsoft as the successor to Windows Mobile in
2012, in partnership with Nokia. Microsoft, which has now acquired Nokia’s handset
business, is looking to this operating system to help them revive their fortunes in the
mobile world.
The Windows Phone operating system works in conjunction with the Windows 8 oper-
ating system, which covers PCs and tablets, providing another strand of standardization.
BLACKBERRY
BlackBerry OS was one of the outstanding success stories in the otherwise Nokia dom-
inated world of the first half of the 2000s decade. BlackBerry phones were marketed
as a business phone, with a secure business operating system and software. BlackBerry
offered secure communication for email, a full QWERTY keyboard, and strong busi-
ness integration. BlackBerry became the dominant phone system for enterprises and
executives through most of the 2000s. Like Nokia, BlackBerry missed out on the touch
revolution and saw its dominant position eroded.
In 2013, BlackBerry launched the QNX operating system, as the platform of the future
for its tablets and smartphones. However, QNX has seen limited success in the market.
SYMBIAN
Symbian was an alliance of handset manufacturers who planned to use the Symbian OS
as the core operating system for their phones. The dominant player in Symbian was
Nokia and over time the company became synonymous with the Symbian OS.
In the 1990s and through the first decade of the twenty-first century, Symbian was
the dominant operating system, with Nokia controlling over 70% of the global handset
market. Most of the handsets that still use Symbian are Nokia phones. Broadly, there
are two Symbian operating systems in common use, the S40 series and S60 series.
The S40 series is the older and less powerful of the two systems. The S60 series was
intended for the next generation of Symbian phones and smartphones in particular.
However, even Nokia is phasing out Symbian and moving to Windows Phone as its
operating system.

LOCATION-BASED SERVICES47
Table 3.3  Mobile and Tablet Operating System Shares. Data sourced from
StatCounter (http://gs.statcounter.com/)
Operating
Systems Shares
for Phones
Intercepted on
the Web
StatCounter
Oct–Dec 2013,
Global
StatCounter
Oct–Dec 2013,
North
America
GRIT 2013
Participation
Study Global
GRIT 2013
Participation
Study North
America
Google Android38%32%25%25%
Apple iOS32%59%33%51%
Other30%9%42%24%
OPERATING SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The overall global picture is fragmented in terms of handsets and operating systems,
with substantial variation from country to country. In terms of smartphones and
tablets, the picture seems, currently, to be stabilizing on Google’s Android and Apple’s
iOS. However, at a global level, researchers who cater only for iOS and Android are
excluding some smartphone users and most/all feature phone users.
The data in Table 3.3 looks at how often a researcher might expect to meet users of
Apple’s iOS and Google’s Android when conducting market research via the internet.
The two sources are both based on intercepting visitors, rather than sales or research
data. The figures are not verified and should only be taken as an indication of a moment
in time, but they do make the point that relying on just iOS and Android will exclude
people.
TIP:When assessing whether a market is ready for smartphone only research, care
should be taken to assess the installed base (what phones are in use) rather than just
recent sales.
LOCATION-BASED SERVICES
Some phones and tablets have location-based services that can be utilized for a wide
range of uses, for example, satellite navigation. These services are often referred to as
geolocation services, and some of these services are known as geofencing. These terms
are explained more fully next.

48THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
In broad terms, location services can be used in the following ways:
∙
To tell a device/user where the device/user is, for example, by locating the
phone via GPS.
∙
To tell other devices or people where the device is, for example, via apps such
as Glympse. This process is known as geolocation. More geolocation uses are
covered below.
∙
To tell the user how to get from their current location to another location, for
example, using the device as a satellite navigation system.
∙
To keep a record of where the device has been. For example, the app Run
Keeper tracks a device whilst its carrier runs, cycles, walks and so on, allowing
a map to be produced at the end of the exercise, along with statistics on
distance, speed, height gained and so on.
∙
To trigger some action based on the location of a device, for example an app
could be configured to trigger a survey every time somebody arrives at a specific
location, for example, a retail park or train station. This triggering by location
isknownasgeofencing.
GEOLOCATION USES
There is a growing range of services that utilize geolocation, including:
∙
Adding location to photos or videos taken by the phone/tablet.
∙
Apps that can tell the owner where the phone is, if it has been lost or stolen.
∙
Social mixing apps, such as Grinder, which tell users whether other members
of Grinder are in the area.
∙
Apps that will search for local services, for example, nearby restaurants.
DIFFERENT WAYS OF FINDING THE LOCATION OF
A MOBILE DEVICE
There are a variety of ways of locating a device and the key ones are described next.
GPS – Global Positioning System
GPS location is a system that allows a GPS-enabled device to locate itself in terms of
longitude and latitude. The positioning is achieved by the device locating the signal from
three or more GPS satellites and using these to triangulate its position.

LOCATION-BASED SERVICES49
The use of GPS is free and anonymous, the mobile device utilizes the signals from the
satellites, but does not register with them or send a message. Only devices that have a
GPS receiver as part of their hardware and suitable software can use GPS location. This
tends to mean smartphones and the more powerful feature phones.
Researchers should remember that people do not always have GPS turned on, even
when they have it on their phone. Reasons not to turn it on include: conserving battery
charge, not interfering with the device’s performance, not wishing to record the device’s
geographic position, and not wishing other people to be able to locate the phone.
GPS can only be used when the device has a ‘line of sight’ to at least three satellites. In
this context, line of sight means the ability to receive the microwave signals from the
satellites. It is not possible for clouds to block the signal, but being inside a building or
basement can (and so can putting the phone into a large bag or briefcase).
Cell tower tracking
The towers, masts, and units (also known as base stations and cell towers) used
to connect mobile phones to the phone network are capable of locating a phone.
This location can happen anywhere the phone can receive a signal, including inside
most buildings. The main limitation with network location services, from a market
research point of view, is that they are only available to the mobile network com-
panies. Any access to this form of location information needs to be via the mobile
networks.
Wi-Fi
Wi-Fi has become a very common way of wirelessly connecting computers, phones,
tablets and other devices together and to the internet. Wi-Fi can be used to identify
devices that connect, or try to connect, to it. The identification can be relatively generic
and passive, or, if the connection is bundled with a registration process, the information
can be more personalized and detailed. Since Wi-Fi is typically restricted to a limited
geographical area, it is possible to log the location of a device connected to a particular
Wi-Fi network.
NFC – Near Field Communication
NFC, or Near Field Communication, is a method of connecting smartphones to each
other or to a fixed sensor point. The communication is based on radio technology
and is restricted to very short distances, either contact or a gap of at most about 20
centimetres.
In the wider business world, NFC is being used to develop new initiatives such
as payment systems. In terms of market research, experimental projects are being

50THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
run in conjunction with activities like competitions in order to collect information
from consenting participants. When used in geolocation, NFC requires the coop-
eration of the participant to place their device in contact, or near contact, with a
sensor, for example as they move from one booth to another at a conference or
trade show.
NFC refers to a specific protocol. There are also other developments that are seek-
ing to create similar benefits and characteristics, for example, extremely short range
Wi-Fi.
Bluetooth
Bluetooth is another wireless protocol and can be used to pass information from one
device to another. Bluetooth can be used for a wide range of uses, for example, to
connect a tablet to a PC or to connect an earpiece to a phone.
Bluetooth, in practice, tends to have a short range – typically about 10 metres.
Many mobile devices do not have their Bluetooth connectivity turned on, reducing its
usefulness for market research, other than in situations where participants are sufficiently
involved to be interested in changing the settings on their device. One interesting devel-
opment in the area of Bluetooth is Bluetooth LE (low energy). Because Bluetooth LE
uses less power it can be more readily used in ‘always on’ contexts.
iBeacon
iBeacon is an indoor positioning system from Apple that uses Bluetooth LE. iBea-
cons can be positioned inside stores to work with apps on phones to record where
people are and to send tasks or messages to the phones. In early 2014 InMarket
announced that they had fitted iBeacons to 150 grocery stores in the US, with the
aim of pushing announcements and coupons to people as they arrive in the shop
(McCormick 2014).
RFID – Radio Frequency Identification
RFID is most typically used as a method of identifying that something is passing a sensor
and of reading the information from the RFID device. Many RFIDs do not have their own
power source; they are simply a very small chip that uses the energy from a broadcasting
unit to be able to send a response.
RFID tags can be used to track packages through a system, people around a factory, or
shopping carts around a supermarket. They can also be used to read information from
ePassports.

KEY ISSUES AND STRATEGIES FOR MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH51
Audio signals
Apps can be built to either emit or pick up specific audio signals, using a microphone
and/or speaker. ShopKick uses an app, on the mobile phones of people who have signed
up to their scheme, to track them entering participating retail outlets and locations. This
is how the ShopKick participants earn shopping coupons. The stores have speakers
emitting a high frequency (i.e. non-audible) signal that is recognized by the app and
uploaded to the ShopKick system.
Market researchers are using audio frequency systems to experiment with locating par-
ticipants within target sites, for example learning about their route around the aisles in
a supermarket.
THE LIMITATIONS OF OUTDOOR GEOLOCATION
Whilst there are several interesting and useful possibilities created by following people’s
movements there are also some significant barriers and limitations to overcome.
Key barriers and limitations include:
∙
The need to download an app onto participants’ phones and for GPS to be
turned on and for a signal to be available.
∙
GPS via mobile phones can lack accuracy and there is a risk that the battery
will be run down.
∙
Large amounts of geographic tracking data can be hard to convert into market
research information.
∙
In some countries there are limitations to the collection and use of location
information.
∙
Location via cell towers and networks is normally only available to the telecom-
munication companies, not to third parties.
Most of the developments for indoor location or positioning do not use GPS or cell
tower tracking. They tend to use beacon and app approaches and these may become
relatively common over the next few years.
KEY ISSUES AND STRATEGIES FOR
MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
In terms of market research and mobile technology the key issues are shown in
Table 3.4:

52THE TECHNOLOGY OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH
Table 3.4  Key issues for mobile market research
QuestionExamples
Are feature phones going to be used?Since the term ‘feature phone’ is not well defined,
a decision to make a study suitable for feature
phones needs clarifying. Exactly which sorts of
phones will be included? With what sort of
features and connections?
Is the study going to use the mobile web
or apps?
If apps are going to be used, how will participants
download them? If the mobile web is going to be
used, what is the availability and reliability of the
internet?
What are the implications for the
participants involved in the study?
Will they have to download anything? Are there
any potential costs, for example data charges?
What impact might the research have on battery
life?
Are Android and iOS enough?If the research is restricted to tablets, probably.
However, even if the research is focused on mobile
devices using the internet using only Android and
iOS operating systems would currently exclude
large numbers of people in some countries.
What is the installed base?Check what devices participants are likely to have.
Don’t just check recent market shares based on
sales.
Are location based services going to be
used?
Check that the design is feasible. Phones generally
can’t use GPS indoors. Most people can’t access
cell tracking data. Many participants don’t have
the location services turned on.
SUMMARY
The mobile ecosystem refers to all of the elements in the mobile landscape, for example,
the handsets, the apps, the operating systems, the mobile service providers, patterns of
use, the number of phones per person, the degree to which tablets are genuinely mobile,
and the cost implications of using these devices. The mobile ecosystem has a major role
in determining who can participate, the type of research that can be conducted, and
the potential biases that may be introduced into the data.

PART II
Qualitative and
Quantitative Research
This part of the book looks at the main two methods or paradigms used by
market researchers, namely qualitative and quantitative research, and how
mobile approaches are being used in both.
The key differences between qualitative and quantitative market research
relate to the analysis of information and the researcher’s belief about their
role in the research process.
The first three chapters in this part of the book look at qualitative research
and the next two look at quantitative research.
Part II covers:
4.Mobile Qualitative Research
5.Mobile Forums and Online Focus Groups
6.Mobile Diaries and Ethnography
7.Mobile Quantitative Research
8.Designing and Conducting Mobile Surveys



4
Mobile Qualitative
Research
INTRODUCTION
Qualitative market researchers were initially faster and more creative, than quantitative
researchers in incorporating mobile market research in their toolkit. The growth in qual-
itative mobile market research has often been in newer and more collaborative areas of
research. For example, market researchers have recruited participants to be active col-
laborators in research projects by using their phones to capture pictures and recordings
from their everyday lives – a form of ethnographic data. Many qualitative researchers
have also been quick to use mobile devices as part of pre and/or post tasks around
conventional qualitative exercises or as stimulus material during conventional sessions.
This chapter provides an overview of the current uses of mobile qualitative market
research, highlighting the main topics, opportunities, challenges, and practices. The fol-
lowing two chapters look at two key forms of mobile qualitative research in more depth,
mobile online discussions and online focus groups, and mobile ethnography and diaries.
THE BENEFITS OF MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Market researchers have highlighted a number of benefits that they are gaining by using
mobile devices in qualitative research projects. Key mobile benefits include:
∙
Participants are able to enter their responses, thoughts, and observations dur-
ing the day, as they go about their normal lives. This ‘in the moment’ recording
of experiences is in contrast to traditional research that asks participants to
recall much later what they saw, what they thought, and how they felt. This in
the moment feedback from participants is not filtered by subsequent experi-
ences and not diminished by a failure to remember.
∙
The material collected can include pictures, videos, and audio recordings of
what the participants see and do. This diversity of material can enrich the
insights generated.
∙
The use of mobile devices can change the relationship between the researcher
and the participants, empowering participants to become true collaborators in
the research.

56MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
∙
Mobile devices enable researchers to use technology-enabled research with
people who do not have access to the internet via PCs, particularly in countries
where mobile phones are much more common than PCs.
∙
Mobile devices can be used by participants to access online moderated qualita-
tive research approaches, such as online focus groups and discussions. Mean-
ing that participants can join from a wider range of places, and in the case of
discussions, contribute when they wish.
∙
Mobile devices can add passive data to a qualitative project. Passive data can
be used to add an observational element to projects, for example by recording
location, journeys, or activities.
∙
Tablets, can add substantial depth to qualitative projects, including the collec-
tion of a wide range of data, their use in online focus groups, and as a medium
for collaborative and creative tasks in face-to-face settings.
DIFFERENT TYPES OF MOBILE
QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Mobile qualitative research can be thought of as having four broad components, as
shown in Figure 4.1.
On the shoulder’
Participant Research
Participants are active collaborators in
the research, using their mobile devices
to record information. For example:
•   Diaries
•   Ethnography
•   WE-research
•   Mobile blogging.
Connecting from Mobile
Participants use their mobile devices
to take part in online or remote
activities, such as:
•   Online focus groups
•   Online discussions and forums
•   Online depth interviews
•   Insight communities.
Conventional
Utilizing mobile devices for a variety of
purposes, including:
•   Stimuli in face-to-face groups and
    depths.
•   Homework, for example collecting
    photos from their kitchen to share in 
    the group.
•   Communication with participants.
‘
Researchers sharing the moment via
mobile technologies, approaches
being trialled include:
•   Quantified self
•   Passive tracking
•   Google Glass and similar.
Figure 4.1Broad components of mobile qualitative research

DIFFERENT TYPES OF MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH57
Participant research includes those approaches where people are recruited to be active
collaborators in the research, using their mobile devices to collect information. Connect-
ing from mobile describes the ways that existing remote research approaches, mostly
online approaches, have been modified to enable them to take advantage of mobile
devices.
‘On the shoulder’ research is by far the least developed of the four themes and utilizes
mobile technologies to watch, track, or see what the participant sees. Conventional is
simply the label we have used to group together the many ways that qualitative research
is utilizing mobile devices and mobile connectivity to improve existing processes.
The rest of this section reviews the methods and approaches described in Figure 4.1.
The following sections cover the relationship between different types of devices and
qualitative research, key issues surrounding mobile qualitative research, and designing
and implementing mobile qualitative projects.
The next two chapters focus on specific areas of mobile qualitative research.
CONNECTING FROM MOBILE
The key driver for this aspect of mobile qualitative research has been to add mobile
connection to existing online qualitative options, and where appropriate to extend what
online is able to do. The three key reasons to do this are:
1.To reach people who do not have PC access to the internet.
2.To enable participants to take part in activities when it suits them, not just when
they are at a PC.
3.To add mobile specific benefits to the research, such as the ability to upload in
the moment images and videos.
This type of research is explored fully in the next chapter. However, the key components
of connecting from mobile are shown in Table 4.1.
PARTICIPANT RESEARCH
Participant research represents a major shift in how research is typically conducted, away
from simply observing or questioning participants and towards working collaboratively
with participants. Participants are enlisted to capture information and images from their
lives and in some cases to help interpret this information. This form of research is
covered fully in the Mobile Diaries and Ethnography chapter.
The key elements of participant research are shown in Table 4.2.

Table 4.1  Using a mobile device to connect to existing forms of qualitative research
CategoryDescription
Mobile
focus groups
Online focus groups are a well-established qualitative research technique, and
mobile devices enable participants to join in from a wider range of locations
and situations.
Mobile devices can also be used for voice only group discussions and in some
cases video chats.
Discussions
and forums
Discussions and forums are a popular online qualitative technique where
moderators post questions and participants post their replies and comments.
Mobile devices broaden the range of who can take part and enable participants
to post from a wider range of locations and situations.
Mobile devices can greatly enrich the sorts of materials that participants
upload, such as in the moment feedback, photos, and video. They also enable
participants to be set mobile tasks, such as contributing their thoughts during a
commuting journey or shopping trip.
Online depth
interviews
Mobiles are being used in voice and video depth interviews, and as an
alternative to a PC in online parallel depth interviews.
Insight
communities
Communities are one of the fastest growing new research approaches.
Communities make extensive use of online discussions and online focus
groups, and – as outlined previously – mobile devices have a contribution to
make to both of these.
The other contributions mobile connectivity can make to communities are
covered in the Panels, Lists, and Communities chapter, later in the book.
Table 4.2  Key elements of participant research
CategoryDescription
Mobile diaries
and blogging
The terms ‘mobile diaries’ and ‘mobile blogs’ are often used interchangeably,
although some researchers give them different meanings.
Mobile diaries have substantially updated the paper-based model for diaries.
Instead of asking participants to write down what has happened based on their
memory, mobile diaries travel with the participant, capturing in the moment
experiences, in the form of notes, images, and recordings.
Uses of mobile diaries and blogging include: in-home product tests, product
experience, paths to purchase, and activities as varied as shopping, commuting,
and holidays.
Mobile
ethnography
Mobile ethnography takes the diary methodology and moves it to the next level
to explore participants’ lives to produce an ethnography, with the participants
as active collaborators in the process.
WE-researchWE-research involves enlisting participants to be the ears, eyes, and reporters
on behalf of the research project. Examples include asking participants to
record every interaction with a new advertising campaign, or public service, or
type of product.
Shopper
studies
Shopper studies combine many of the approaches outlined above, along with
things like passive data collection, to create a much richer picture of the
shopping process, including planning, the journey, the in-store experience, and
post-purchase phase.

DIFFERENT TYPES OF MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH59
‘ON THE SHOULDER’
‘On the shoulder’ research is much less developed than the other types of mobile qual-
itative research mentioned in this chapter and uses some of the newest technologies.
‘On the shoulder’ research is observational research, taking what people do as its most
important element, rather than focusing on what people say they do.
Until recently ‘on the shoulder’ techniques were restricted to accompanied shopping
and CCTV approaches. However, mobile devices are creating a wide range of exciting
new options for ‘on the shoulder’ research.
Three interesting areas are:
∙
The ‘quantified self’
∙
Passive tracking
∙
Wearable technologies.
Utilizing the ‘quantified self’
A growing number of people are recording different aspects of their lives. They might
be pursuing fitness or diet goals, while others are simply interested in recording their
lives in terms of people, places, and experiences. Together, these activities are referred
to as the ‘quantified self’.
The ‘quantified self’ is producing a wide array of new products and services, from apps
on phones, to websites, to wearable monitors and devices. In combination these devices
and services provide a rich and detailed picture of what people do, some of which will
be of great interest to market researchers.
The qualitative use of ‘quantified self’ information usually involves the participant and
the researcher reviewing the data together, so that the participant can articulate what
was happening when the information was collected.
Qualitative tracking
Qualitative mobile tracking involves working with passive data and small groups of par-
ticipants (unlike quantitative passive research, which typically uses larger samples). The
analysis of qualitative tracking is normally conducted collaboratively with the participant.
For example, by showing their routes on a map and exploring the significance of the
route options selected.
A full review of quantitative and qualitative uses of passive data is provided in the Utilizing
Passive Data chapter.

60MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Wearable technologies
One group of technologies that specifically enables researchers to see what the partici-
pant sees are those wearable technologies based around cameras and images. Devices
such as mobile eye tracking glasses have enabled researchers in test situations to see
what participants saw, but the advent of wearable devices, such as the Memoto life-
logging camera (worn like a pendant and taking a picture every 30 seconds), GoPro
(a high definition wearable video camera), and most recently Google Glass mean that
ordinary citizens can be recruited to capture what they see.
This form of ‘on the shoulder’ research raises a large number of ethical and legal con-
cerns, most of which have not yet been resolved.
USING MOBILES IN CONVENTIONAL QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Market researchers have found a wide range of uses for mobile devices within their
existing toolkit.
As a tool in qualitative sessions
Mobile devices can be used in a variety of ways as part of a conventional qualitative
exercise. For example, tablets can be used in focus groups or in one-on-one interviews,
to show images and video, or to allow the participant to access materials and to take
part in activities such as sorting exercises or creating collages.
Mobile homework
Many qualitative projects benefit from assigning tasks before (or after) the main session,
for example participants might keep a diary or collect images before a face-to-face focus
group or a depth interview. These tasks can be sent to participants via their mobile
device and may require that participants use their device to capture information as they
go about their daily lives, for example asking participants to take pictures of the food
and products in their pantry or kitchen cupboards.
Mobile devices can also be used for post-session tasks, for example joining an online
discussion or sending photos and/or ideas back to the researcher.
OTHER USES OF MOBILE DEVICES FOR QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Mobile devices are also used to organize and coordinate qualitative activities, ensuring
people receive instructions, helping them find locations, and generally communicating
with participants. Mobile devices also are commonly used in conjunction with research
communities as part of the overall method of communication with members for quali-
tative, quantitative, and administrative purposes.

THE ROLE OF DIFFERENT MOBILE DEVICES IN QUALITATIVE RESEARCH61
THE ROLE OF DIFFERENT MOBILE DEVICES
IN QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
This section of the chapter reviews the key characteristics of the leading types of mobile
devices, in the context of qualitative market research (i.e. feature phones, smartphones,
and tablets). More information on the devices and their uses is available in the chapter
on The Technology of Mobile Market Research.
FEATURE PHONES
The term ‘feature phone’ does not refer to a specific type of phone, it is a catch-all
phrase for anything that does not meet the current definition of a smartphone.
Some feature phones are limited to phone calls and text, although a camera is almost
universal. Other feature phones support email, internet access, video recording, and
the ability to download apps. Therefore, feature phone-based qualitative mobile market
research can refer to a continuum of approaches.
One common use of feature phones is to ask participants to record events in their
lives, using texts, photos, or videos as data for the types of research described ear-
lier as ‘participant research’. The data can be sent to the researcher in a number of
ways, including SMS, MMS, via a downloaded app, or via a face-to-face meeting with an
interviewer.
Phones at the ‘smarter end’ of the feature phone spectrum, particularly those with
internet access, can be used for a wider range of qualitative projects, including accessing
blogs or communities, and for taking part in online focus groups. Some of the smarter
phones can also be used for types of tracking research and for the testing of mobile
advertising/marketing.
Feature phones are also used to help with the logistics of research projects, for example
to book focus group sessions or depth interviews, to send reminders, and to deal with
queries.
SMARTPHONES
The power and portability of smartphones makes them very attractive to qualitative
market researchers for a wide variety of uses. In situations where it can be assumed
that smartphones can connect to the internet an even wider range of online qualitative
research is possible, including online discussions, online focus groups, and virtual in-
depth interviews. Indeed, most forms of online qualitative research can be conducted
via smartphones.

62MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
In addition to being a mobile option for traditional online qualitative research, smart-
phones can be used for research that is specifically mobile, and in some cases, specif-
ically smartphone. This use of smartphones relates to the term ‘participant research’
used earlier in the chapter and described in full in the Mobile Diaries and Ethnogra-
phy chapter. The smartphone equips the collaborative participant with everything they
need to be an active partner in research projects, capturing slices of their lives, the lives
of people around them, and information about their interactions with the surrounding
world.
The key to the usefulness of the smartphone include its ability to play and record mul-
timedia, to connect to the internet, to download apps, and to record passive data,
including location data. Because people tend to have their smartphone with them 24/7,
it is available to capture things when they happen, rather than relying on participants
recalling and describing events at a later date.
TABLETS
Tablets are capable of more, in some ways, than either feature phones or smartphones.
They are typically configured to access the internet, and their screen is much larger than
a smartphone – and therefore capable of displaying more than a phone. However,
tablets are not as portable as phones and so they are less likely to always be with the
participant. These key differences tend to impact the way tablets are used for qualitative
research, making them less useful in the context of things like shopping trips, but very
valuable in the context of the home and on some sorts of journeys.
The larger screen on a tablet makes it a good alternative to a PC for online focus
groups, online depth interviews, video chats and so on – provided the software being
used is suitable, and assuming there is a good connection to the internet. The larger
touchscreens on tablets make them an interesting option for more innovative qualitative
approaches such as sorting, drawing, creating collages and so on, both remotely and in
face-to-face situations.
Tablets are, typically, used less than smartphones in the collection of ethnographic type
data, because tablets are less likely to be carried all the time, even though the data
collection tools typically run equally well on both smartphones and tablets. However,
when the focus of a study is images and photos from around the home, tablets can be
as suitable as smartphones.
KEY ISSUES SURROUNDING MOBILE
QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Mobile qualitative market research is a new field, and key issues are still being identified
and ground rules established. This section reviews some of the key issues.

KEY ISSUES SURROUNDING MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH63
ANALYSIS
Mobile qualitative research creates some interesting challenges in the area of analysis,
because:
∙
It can create more data than can be easily processed, particularly with respect
to images, video, and passive data.
∙
There are relatively few tools to help with the processing of images, video, and
passive data.
∙
Because the data collection tools for approaches like online focus groups and
mobile ethnography are widely available, people with little training in the design
and analysis of these approaches are being tempted into conducting projects
without adequate support or resources.
DATA OVERLOAD
Mobile devices are capable of producing large amounts of data, including pictures and
videos. Analysing images and especially video can be very time consuming. Much of the
attraction of mobile qualitative market research is that it can leverage the power of the
many and reach into the nooks and crannies of everyday life, but care needs to be taken
to avoid data overload.
Steve August, founder and CEO of Revelation, has said:
‘Researchers need to think carefully about study design, and understand the volume of the data they
have built into their studies. In some ways this flies in the face of more data is always better. Until
analytic tools evolve further, researchers may increasingly have to actively limit the data they collect.
For example, consider when video is truly important or a “nice to have”.’
PRACTICAL TIPS FOR WORKING WITH VIDEO
The following tips from practitioners can make processing video easier:
∙
Tag and code videos as they are collected, don’t wait until the end of the
project.
∙
Sorting video clips by attributes such as time of day, user, and length can make
working with video easier.
∙
Ask participants to supply tags for their videos, for example children, breakfast,
school day (the tags will be more consistent if you supply the participants with
a list of suggested tags).

64MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
∙
To assemble a view of, say, breakfast habits, restrict the initial viewing to videos
shot between 7am and 10am, or to videos tagged with ‘breakfast’.
∙
Request participants to keep their videos short, for example 30 to 60 seconds.
∙
When searching for a particular activity, for example frying, videos can be
skimmed at higher than normal speed until frying related items are found.
∙
As the analysis progresses more codes and tags should be added.
ANALYSIS SKILLS SHORTFALL
One of the great things about the new mobile tools is that they bring the potential
to collect ever more varied qualitative data to a wider range of people. Whilst at one
level, this is a democratization of the research process, it also raises the issue of people
collecting information they don’t know how to analyse.
Good examples of this challenge are ethnography and online discussions. There is
little difficulty in collecting ethnographic data, for example pictures from a variety of
kitchens at mealtimes, or of conducting online discussions. However, the real value of
this sort of information often derives from the analysis. One common criticism from
clients is that too much of the material presented to them is a description of what hap-
pened, rather than what it means, or better still, advice about what the client should
do next.
People new to the field of qualitative research are encouraged to seek support, tuition,
or advice before undertaking the more advanced projects, and to perhaps start with
one of the more straightforward approaches, such as mobile diaries, before embarking
on online focus groups and mobile ethnography.
MOBILE COSTS
The use of mobile devices can generate higher costs for participants and/or researchers.
Researchers need to be aware that taking part in many mobile qualitative research
approaches is not necessarily free to participants. If participants are collecting images,
videos, and audio recordings, then care must be taken to ensure that they do not
incur data costs when transferring these to the researcher. This may mean reimbursing
participants as part of their incentive, or it might mean finding alternative ways for the
participants to transfer data, i.e. ways that incur zero or minimal costs, for example
via Wi-Fi.
One of the potential advantages of app-based approaches is that they can be designed
to make much less use of the internet than browser-based approaches, something that
might need to be factored into the project design.

KEY ISSUES SURROUNDING MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH65
TIP:In markets where mobile costs are a major issue and where the internet is
not widely available, some researchers have found it advisable, for mobile qualitative
projects, to recruit users who have access to Wi-Fi, for example people who have
Wi-Fi at home or who can access it at convenient locations.
RECRUITING AND BRIEFING PARTICIPANTS
Most mobile qualitative projects use the same recruitment methods as other forms
of qualitative research, in particular professional recruiters, panels, client lists, and
communities.
Participants need to be recruited who have the right sort of devices, the right sort of
connectivity (e.g. internet connection), and so they understand what is being asked of
them in terms of number and types of tasks. This recruitment needs to be conducted
without introducing factors that will overly bias the research.
In terms of briefing participants, the key elements to consider are:
∙
Will the briefing be managed by the researcher or a third party, such as a
fieldwork company?
∙
Will the briefing be face-to-face or remote?
∙
If the briefing is remote, will it be via video, paper, webcast etc.?
∙
How will support be provided to participants if they have questions after the
briefing?
FOCUSING ON A TECHNOLOGY SUB-GROUP
When conducting mobile qualitative research, researchers need to avoid the risk of
focusing on people who are so tech savvy as to be poor representatives for the issue
being researched.
The risk of focusing on the tech savvy early adopter is all the greater if the research
is being conducted in several countries, with differing economic and technological
considerations. For example, using smartphones to explore the use of commuter trains
might be appropriate in London, but somewhat less appropriate in somewhere like
Jakarta or Mumbai.

66MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Some of these concerns can be addressed by making the appropriate technology avail-
able to people who don’t have it. For example, in much of the developing world doing
‘rich world’ mobile research often means giving the sample, or part of the sample, a
smartphone or tablet device and providing training on how to use it.
ETHICAL AND LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS
Mobile market research is a dynamic field and the guidelines, regulations, and laws are
regularly updated and changed, so it is important that researchers keep themselves
informed about what is and is not allowed, and what actions and procedures are
required. This book has a chapter specifically on ethics and guidelines, and comments
are added throughout the book where relevant.
Researchers are advised to consult the ESOMAR guidelines, local regulations, and advice
from bodies such as the MMRA.
In terms of mobile qualitative research, some of the key issues to consider include:
∙
Participants
∙
Third parties
∙
Clients.
PARTICIPANTS
Market researchers take the interests of participants very seriously and participant wel-
fare is written into market research codes of conduct and regulations. As well as the
issues common to other forms of data collection (such as the need to protect anonymity
and the security of personal information) mobile market research approaches create
some areas of special interest.
Physical safety.Participants should be advised not to put themselves at risk. For exam-
ple, participants should be advised not to take part in research whilst driving or using
machinery. Participants should consider the danger factors around them, for example,
not standing in a road to take a picture, approaching wild animals, or taking videos of
people in a rowdy bar.
Legal safety.In many countries, there are places where mobile phones should not be
used, especially to capture images, and there are people who should not be videoed
or photographed. In places such as immigration halls, civic buildings, courts and so on,
bans on the use of cameras and video recording is not uncommon. In many countries,

DESIGNING AND IMPLEMENTING MOBILE QUALITATIVE PROJECTS67
taking photos or videos of other people’s children is illegal. It is not unusual, around the
world, for it to be illegal to photograph police officers or soldiers.
Data costs.As mentioned earlier, taking part in mobile qualitative projects can incur
costs. Market researchers need to ensure that participants are briefed about the risks,
told how to avoid costs, and reimbursed if they are out of pocket.
THIRD PARTIES
When using participants to collect information, researchers may find themselves in pos-
session of information about people who have not consented to be part of the research,
or who may not even be aware of the research. This raises a variety of informed consent
issues.
The advice that has been offered to researchers includes things like:
∙
Not accessing the contacts file of a participant’s mobile phone.
∙
Pixelating the faces of third parties captured in photos and video.
∙
When conducting research with a household, it is a good idea to request the
permission of all members of the family.
Participants should be advised about the sort of data they should not collect about other
people, the sort of information/images that they should not transmit, and the research
team should monitor what is being uploaded.
CLIENTS
Care needs to be taken not to compromise client’s intellectual property or information.
Mobile devices are easily lost or stolen, so care should be taken to ensure that the
information on them is regularly backed up to servers, and nothing on the device could
cause a problem or embarrassment for the client.
DESIGNING AND IMPLEMENTING MOBILE
QUALITATIVE PROJECTS
Table 4.3 highlights the key steps and considerations in designing and implementing a
mobile qualitative project.

68MOBILE QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
Table 4.3  Key steps and considerations when designing and implementing mobile
qualitative
ConsiderationOptions
What is the role of
mobile?
Does it need to be platform agnostic, with some people using mobile,
some using PCs, and some using a mixture, for example, online focus
groups.
Or, should it focus on mobile, such as collecting images and recording
throughout the day?
What sort of mobile
device do you need?
If people need it with them all day it might need to be a phone, if the
focus is home or office then a tablet might work.
Do you need a smartphone, or will a feature phone give you what you
need? The more types of phones you are willing to include the more
potential participants you will have to choose from.
Browser or
app-based?
Browser-based solutions are often easier to set up and do not require
the participant to download anything.
But apps give access to more features of the mobile device, can prompt
the participant, and can work when the internet is not available.
What sort of mobile
device is available?
In a developed market you might find smartphones and/or tablets are
widely available. In a less developed market insisting on smartphones
might bias the study.
How are the
participants going to
be recruited?
Do you know of a recruiter with experience in recruiting for mobile
qualitative research? If not, you will need to put in extra time for
communication and quality checks.
What systems/
software are you
going to use?
Creating custom built solutions is less necessary now than a few years
ago. There are a wide range of systems available and using these will
tend to be cheaper, faster, and sometimes more reliable.
However, a custom built solution might give you exactly what you
need, rather than having to adapt your design to what is available.
How much data are
you going to collect?
With mobile qualitative research it is very easy to collect more data
than is necessary and more than you can actually use. The more
information you collect per person, the fewer people you should
probably use. In-depth ethnography style projects are often conducted
on 10 to 20 people for this reason.
Limit the length of videos that participants are asked to collect, for
example to 30, 60, or at most 90 seconds.
How is the data
going to be
analysed?
Photos, audio recordings, and video take time to organize and even
longer to analyse. The analysis plan should be created before the
project is finished and the time and resources allocated.
How are the insights
going to be
presented?
If images and recordings from the research are going to be used then
permission should be obtained before the data is collected, not
retrospectively.
The material collected is not the insight; the insights should determine
what material is used in the presentation.

SUMMARY69
SUMMARY
Although mobile qualitative market research is a small part of the total qualitative picture,
it has opened up new and interesting opportunities. This process is likely to continue
to develop as mobile devices become more powerful, as smart devices become more
common, and as researchers create new opportunities and approaches.
Some of the key points to keep in mind:
∙
Enabling mobile access to existing forms of online qualitative research broad-
ens the range of people able to take part, and allows participants to take part
from more locations and situations.
∙
Mobile devices have enabled participants to be recruited as collaborators in the
research process, collecting slices of their lives, the lives of people around them,
and their interactions with the surrounding world. New research approaches
such as mobile diaries and mobile ethnography have been developed to take
advantage of these opportunities.
∙
New technologies are allowing researchers to capture observational data, see-
ing what the participants see, and collecting passive data that describes their
movements and actions.
∙
One of the key challenges for researchers is to handle the potentially vast
amount of information collected from participants, including video, photos, and
passive data.
∙
Key strategies to control the amount of data being collected are to limit: the
length of a project, the number of participants, the number of images they are
asked to upload, and the length of video they capture (typically to 30 or 60
seconds).
∙
One of the key challenges facing mobile qualitative research is in the area of
analysis, including how to analyse ever larger amounts of information and how
to ensure newcomers to the discipline understand what is needed.
∙
Key ethical challenges include ensuring participant safety, obtaining informed
consent, ensuring costs do not fall on participants, and avoiding compromising
the privacy and rights of third parties.

5
Mobile Forums and
Online Focus Groups
INTRODUCTION
The previous chapter provided an overview of mobile qualitative market research, divid-
ing the topics into four broad categories: participant research (where participants use
their mobile devices to help gather research material), ‘on the shoulder’ research (using
mobile technologies to see what the participants see), conventional uses (such as using
mobile devices to communicate with research participants), and a category termed ‘con-
necting from mobile’. The two key approaches in the connecting from mobile category
are mobile forums and online focus groups.
This chapter covers the ‘connecting from mobile’ category in more depth and focuses
on approaches such as online forums, discussions, and focus groups. These approaches
tend to have two things in common:
1.They are moderated by a researcher.
2.The participants are remote from both the moderator and each other – for
example they are in different parts of the country, connecting to the research
process via their mobile devices.
MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
Whilst some forums, discussions, and remote focus groups are purely mobile, the major-
ity are mixed-mode, with some participants connecting via mobile devices and others
connecting via PCs. The projects can also be mixed-mode in the sense that participants
use a mobile device some of the time and a PC some of the time.
Mobile focus groups and online discussions can also be used in conjunction with other
types of research, for example as a follow-up to a face-to-face focus group or after a
quantitative exercise such as an online survey.
In this context, describing projects as ‘mobile’ refers to ensuring that they are at least
mobile compatible and in some cases ensuring that they use the opportunities created
by some of the participants using mobile devices.

FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS71
Synchronous and Asynchronous Online Qualitative Research
The terms ‘synchronous’ and ‘asynchronous’ are used to describe whether the
moderator and participants have to be connected at the same time (as in a focus
group), or whether they have the option to be online at different times, as in a
forum.Synchronousmeans people have to be online at the same time as each
other.Asynchronousmeans that people do not have to be online at the same
time as each other.
FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS
‘Forums’ and ‘discussions’ are terms that are often used interchangeably and describe
unstructured or semi-structured, asynchronous conversations with a group of people
online. Because forums and discussions are asynchronous, participants can log in, check
what the moderator and the other participants have said, make their own contribution,
and leave, all at a time of their own choosing.
Market research discussions and forums are almost always private discussions. The par-
ticipants to the discussion are invited and some form of private login is used to ensure
that the discussion remains closed.
In the context of market research, an online discussion is most typically a question
posted by a moderator or researcher, and a series of replies from the participants in
the discussion, usually with additional questions or probes from the moderator.
A forum, in market research, is often a virtual location where several discussions can
take place. However, different software platforms have different terms, and some even
choose to have forums within discussions.
MOBILE DISCUSSIONS AND FORUMS
At present, most mobile discussions and forums are actually ‘online’ rather than purely
‘mobile’. They have been designed with the internet in mind, and use tools that create
forums and discussions that depend on browsers to access them. The terms ‘mobile
discussions’ and ‘mobile forums’ tend to mean one or more of the following:
∙
An online discussion/forum that is suitable for mobile devices.
∙
An online discussion/forum where some of the tasks are intended to be com-
pleted via a mobile device.

72MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
∙
An online discussion/forum where the purpose of the research relates to mobile
(either about mobiles or the mobile ecosystem).
In most cases, mobile discussions and forums are accessed via internet browsers, which
means their use is restricted to internet-enabled phones and tablets.
MARKET RESEARCH DISCUSSIONS AND FORUMS
If somebody posts a comment on Facebook or starts a discussion in LinkedIn and
nobody responds, that is typically the end of it – although they might try posting it
elsewhere to get a response. Market research forums and discussions are created for
a purpose, which tends to make them different from naturally occurring forums and
discussions.
Market research forums and discussions tend to have the following characteristics:
∙
The discussion platform will be private/closed (i.e. not searchable by Google
and only accessible to people with a login and password).
∙
The intended participants will have been specifically recruited to take part in
the discussion.
∙
The participants are usually incentivized, typically with extrinsic rewards (such
as a prize or cash), but sometimes with intrinsic rewards, such as recognition
or praise.
∙
The researcher will have a research question (usually in the context of a busi-
ness question) and will have specific things they want to explore, often in the
form of a discussion guide or scripted questions.
∙
Depending on the researcher’s style and choice of method, the discussion on
each point posed by the researcher will continue until either:
–Every participant has answered.
–The researcher feels the point has been sufficiently answered.
∙
In most market research discussions and forums the majority of the posts and
comments from the participants will be in response to and directed at the
researcher or moderator.
–This is not normally a problem. Quite often the participants are taking
part because they want the brand to hear their views, not necessarily
because they want to talk to other users or customers.

FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS73
–When participants are posting their own questions it can be a clue that
the researcher does not understand key issues of concern to the partici-
pants.
–When participants are responding to/disagreeing with each other it may
be a clue about segments, for example manual versus automatic cars or
organic versus value food.
∙
Many market research forum or discussion platforms have tools to aid the
researcher, for example:
–The ability to pre-load questions into the platform, potentially with auto-
mated/timed release.
–Tagging or coding facilities to help analyse the contributions – which
may include a facility for participants to tag/code their own contributions
and/or the contributions of other participants.
–Tag clouds or links to text analysis software.
∙
Many platforms support a facility for the moderator to require that participants
post a reply before they can see the replies posted by other members of the
discussion.
LOCATING DISCUSSIONS AND FORUMS WITHIN THE WIDER
SOCIAL MEDIA CONTEXT
Both forums and discussions grew out of bulletin boards and message boards, which is
where some of the jargon related to this approach was developed, such as threads and
moderators. Since the explosion of social media, particularly Facebook, the expectation
of most participants is that online discussions will broadly follow the conventions of social
media – even though market research discussions and forums are generally private.
Common conventions/expectations are:
∙
People making posts will have some sort of online persona or avatar. This
might be a made up name, or it might be their real name. Participants will
often be represented by an image, which could be their photo, but might be
an image they have chosen, or one they have been assigned.
∙
A single conversation, for example a question from the moderator and a series
of answers, is often called a thread (but it can also be called a discussion).
∙
The posts and answers in a thread will be laid out so that people can under-
stand the sequence that they were added in.

74MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
–There are two main approaches to laying out posts and comments in a
thread. Firstly, from the most recent to oldest (or vice versa), or secondly,
with answers embedded next to the comments they were a reply to.
Examples of these approaches are in shown in Figures 5.1, 5.2, and 5.3.
∙
Participants are often given the chance to ‘Like’ a post or comment. Sometimes,
there might also be a facility to ‘Not like’ a post or comment. Thumbs up and
down are often used as symbols for ‘Like’ and ‘Not like’, as are smiley and sad
emoticons.
The examples in Figures 5.1, 5.2, and 5.3 are based on examples from theHandbook of
Online and Social Media Research(Poynter 2010). Figure 5.1 shows a simplified discussion
with the oldest comment first, Figure 5.2 shows the same conversation with the newest
comment first, and Figure 5.3 shows the same discussion with comments embedded
next to the item they were replying to.
When the oldest comment is at the top, the flow of the comments tends to be relatively
natural, but the latest comments may require a reader to scroll through several pages
of comments before seeing them. This can result in the conversation running out of
energy when the posts fill more than one page.
When comments are sorted with the newest entries at the top, it is easy for readers to
see the latest comments, but the discussion flow is less natural to read and responses
tend to focus on the last point, and less on the whole conversation.
What is the best food to take on a long walk?
I always like to take an apple, cheese and bread.
Starman, 5 December 2009, 12:15
I think nuts are a great food when out for a walk.
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 14:21
What about if somebody on your walk is allergic to nuts, might it be dangerous?
FreeBird, 5 December 2009, 19:42
I think it depends on the time of year. In the winter I always take a flask with hot
soup in it. But in the summer I am more likely to have something like fruit.
WanderFull, 5 December 2009, 20:22
Hmm, that’s a good point I had never thought about before
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 21:51
Figure 5.1Discussion sorted with oldest comment at the top

FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS75
What is the best food to take on a long walk?
Hmm, that’s a good point I had never thought about before
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 21:51
I think it depends on the time of year. In the winter I always take a flask with hot
soup in it. But in the summer I am more likely to have something like fruit.
WanderFull, 5 December 2009, 20:22
What about if somebody on your walk is allergic to nuts, might it be dangerous?
FreeBird, 5 December 2009, 19:42
I think nuts are a great food when out for a walk.
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 14:21
I always like to take an apple, cheese and bread.
Starman, 5 December 2009, 12:15
Figure 5.2Discussion sorted with newest comment at the top
What is the best food to take on a long walk?
I always like to take an apple, cheese and bread.
Starman, 5 December 2009, 12:15
I think nuts are a great food when out for a walk.
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 14:21
What about if somebody on your walk is allergic to nuts, might it be
dangerous?
FreeBird, 5 December 2009, 19:42
Hmm, that’s a good point I had never thought about before
HappyGal, 5 December 2009, 21:51
I think it depends on the time of year. In the winter I always take a flask with hot
soup in it. But in the summer I am more likely to have something like fruit.
WanderFull, 5 December 2009, 20:22
Figure 5.3Discussion with replies inset

76MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
Discussions that allow replies to be inset, and which allow replies to specific elements
in the conversation can be the most natural for participants. However, they can render
badly on mobile phones, so this should be checked before selecting this layout.
TIP:Do not create your own discussion protocols (even if you think they are better
than traditional options). People expect research discussions to follow the conventions
that are currently popular.
CREATING MOBILE FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS AND FORUMS
Most online research should be done in a platform agnostic way, allowing users to
choose whether to contribute via a mobile device or a PC, unless there are strong
research reasons why a discussion or forum should be mobile only or PC only.
Steps that need to be addressed to make discussions and forums mobile friendly
include:
∙
Recognizing that mobile participants may have less bandwidth than partici-
pants using PCs, so there should be options to reduce the size of images/videos.
∙
The platform should optimize for mobile, especially for phones, stripping out
unnecessary elements and re-organizing the material so it can be browsed in
a convenient way. Platforms based on HTML5 tend to be the best for this sort
of optimization, including the ability to add dynamic animation.
∙
Not using Flash. Flash was a popular tool in making PC-based online tools
more engaging, but it does not work on the leading smartphone and tablet
operating systems. Flash is no longer being developed and is being phased out.
Most of these steps are the responsibility of the platform provider, not the researcher.
The researcher’s role is to select an appropriate system and within that to choose
mobile-enabled options.
CREATING MOBILE TASKS FOR FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS
There are a wide range of mobile tasks that can be created to enrich mobile forums
and discussions, for example:
∙
Capturing photos and images and uploading these to the forum. These can
be as varied as photos from the participants’ bathroom cabinets or images

FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS77
of brands in the wider world. Three ways of uploading media should be facili-
tated:
–Directly from the mobile device’s camera
–From the mobile device’s memory
–Copying the media to a PC and uploading from there.
∙
Capturing and contributing slices from the participant’s life and adding them
to the discussion. For example, if the discussion is about clothes, making contri-
butions from a clothing store, talking about the moment while in the moment.
∙
Time critical posts. PC-based forums require people to be at their desks to
respond, mobile contributions can be made across a wide range of times and
places.
∙
During journeys or trips, for example, asking commuters to take part in dis-
cussions during their commutes.
TIP:Participants often have problems when first uploading photos or videos, so be
prepared to help them. The researcher should have been through the process them-
selves, to make sure the advice is genuinely helpful and easy to understand. It can
also be a good idea to get someone who is not familiar with the process to pilot or
trial the instructions to see if they can follow them and perform the action.
CREATING MOBILE SPECIFIC FORUMS AND DISCUSSION
A mobile specific forum or discussion is one where the members can only access the
platform using their mobile device, i.e. they cannot use their PC. Just as there are few
situations that justify excluding mobiles, there are relatively few situations where partic-
ipants should be prohibited from using PCs. However, there are a few situations where
mobile specific discussions or forums may be appropriate, including:
∙
If the target group are all mobile users and the platform is app-based.
∙
Where the research topic is the mobile device or some function of the device
and the intention is to focus the conversation on the experience of using the
device.
∙
When the research centres around an event, and the respondents are
expected to take part from the event, for example a festival.

78MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
INCLUDING NON-INTERNET ELEMENTS IN FORUMS
AND DISCUSSIONS
Whilst there are few discussions or forums that operate entirely without the internet,
a number of them allow participants to post comments, answers, images, or videos
using basic services such as SMS and MMS. Participants can be primed to send a text or
image every time a specific action happens. Typically, this approach is combined with
participants using the internet later to expand on text they sent or explaining more
about the context for an image.
ANALYSIS OF FORUMS AND DISCUSSIONS
Forums and discussions can generate a large amount of material, and if mobile devices
are being used, this can include images and videos. The forum and/or discussion might
last just 24 hours, or it might last weeks, so the analysis needs to be carefully planned
to avoid the researcher being overloaded and to avoid the risk of missing key insights.
Strategies that can help with the analysis process include:
∙
Starting the analysis when the discussion starts, rather than at the end. Quotes
and images can be selected and/or tagged, and the moderator can use probes
to triangulate their findings.
∙
Matching the tasks to the number of people in the discussion. If there are 20
people in the discussion, then asking them to upload 10 to 20 images each
results in a reasonable research task. If there are 100 people in the community,
10 to 20 images each would require a large amount of analysis and are likely
to create a large amount of redundant repetition. If video uploads are being
used then they should, normally, be kept to a short length, for example, 30,
60, or at most 90 seconds.
∙
The members of the discussion can be asked to help with the analysis. At the
simplest level this might mean asking people to highlight their most and least
preferred comments, but it could also include asking participants to tag, group,
or even code comments, photos, or videos.
If any of the images uploaded by the participants are going to be used in reporting
the research, or by the end-client, then permission needs to be obtained early in the
process, usually when the participants are being recruited.
FOCUS GROUPS
Face-to-face focus groups date back to the 1940s, and online focus groups date back
to the 1990s. Focus groups are a synchronous method, i.e. all the people are present
(or online) at the same time.

FOCUS GROUPS79
The majority of online focus groups are text-based, typically using specialist market
research software. But there are approaches and platforms that incorporate sound and
sometimes video in the process. Text-based online focus groups make few demands
on bandwidth, which make them very suitable for mobile participants. If video groups
are planned, then the platform should be checked to see what its requirements are and
the recruitment of mobile participants matched to these requirements.
Another use of the term ‘online focus group’ is to describe conventional, face-to-face
focus groups where the internet is used to stream a video feed from the group, such
as the service offered by companies like FocusVision.
As with other forms of market research, the trend is for online focus groups to be
platform agnostic, especially for participants and observers. At present, the systems for
the researcher or moderator are more likely to require a PC as they are often used in
combination with other tools, for example access to corporate servers, email, analysis
programs, or messaging systems.
ENSURING ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS ARE MOBILE FRIENDLY
In order to be mobile friendly, an online focus group platform should avoid using non-
mobile features such as Flash, be capable of using lower bandwidth images where appro-
priate, and be written using web technologies that render correctly for mobile. To make
the platform mobile friendly, care must be taken to scale controls and buttons so that
they are easy to manipulate on a mobile device. These issues are largely the responsi-
bility of the company creating the platform. The researcher’s responsibility is to select
an appropriate platform and then to select the mobile friendly options.
In terms of tablets, the mobile experience is relatively similar to the PC experience
(provided that the platform is written properly). However, some people find that typing
on a tablet is slower than via a keyboard, which may impact the quantity of contributions
from tablet users.
In terms of phones, more attention needs to be made to ensure that participants can
see the moderator’s prompts, the responses of other participants, any stimuli being
displayed, and that they can easily enter their responses. Entering comments on most
mobile phones is slower and less accurate than on a PC or tablet.
TIP:Tell participants not to worry about spelling and typing accuracy. Mobile slang
can be encouraged, if all the participants are familiar with it.
A typical online focus group lasts 60 to 90 minutes. Making an online focus group mobile
friendly, especially for phones, involves making sure that mobile participants are warned

80MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
about the length of the session, or breaking the session into two or three shorter
sessions.
VOICE ONLY FOCUS GROUPS
Although voice only focus groups are relatively rare, they are very suitable for mobile
devices. If voice only focus groups are utilizing mobile devices the researcher has the
choice, and should ideally offer the participant the choice, of using telephone or some
form of VOIP (e.g. Skype).
ANALYSIS OF MOBILE FRIENDLY FOCUS GROUPS
The analysis of online focus groups, including mobile friendly online focus groups, is
similar to the analysis of traditional focus groups. The moderator loses the advantage of
seeing the body language, but gains instant access to a full transcript.
When analysing groups where some participants were using mobile devices and some
were using PCs, the device usage should be flagged next to participants’ IDs, and it
should be one of the factors taken into account during the analysis.
DEPTH INTERVIEWS
Depth interviews are, traditionally, one-on-one, face-to-face interviews between the
researcher and a participant. However, there has been a long tradition of conducting
some depth interviews, particularly in B2B research, via the telephone.
In terms of mobile market research, phones and tablets can be used in a number of
ways, including:
∙
In face-to-face interviews mobile devices can be used to record or even video
the interview. One popular option is to record the voice interview and at the
end of the interview to return to a key item in the interview and re-ask the
question capturing the answer on video.
∙
Ringing people on, or from, mobile phones, which means the depth interview
can be conducted in a wider range of situations. For example, a depth interview
can be conducted during business or shopping trips.
∙
Using VOIP, for example, or Skype or Google Hangouts, to avoid phone costs
especially for long distance or international studies.

ETHICAL AND LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS81
∙
Using web services such as Webex or Citrix to allow the participant to connect
from their device (PC or mobile) to take part in an interview, to record sound
and/or video, and to show stimuli.
PARALLEL DEPTH INTERVIEWS
Parallel depth interviews utilize modified forms of discussion or forum software, to cre-
ate text-based, remote, asynchronous depth interviews. The researcher posts a ques-
tion that is sent to each participant, the participant enters their reply (from a PC
or mobile device), but the participant can’t see the other participants in the study.
The key benefits of making parallel depth interviews mobile friendly are that they can
speed up the responses, as well as broadening the range of people willing and able to
take part.
ETHICAL AND LEGAL CONSIDERATIONS
As well as the general ethical considerations that relate to all market research, there
are some considerations that are particularly relevant to forums, discussions, and online
focus groups. For example:
∙
Safety.Participants should be reminded not to do anything that puts them
or others at risk. For example not putting themselves at risk to try and get an
interesting or provocative picture.
∙
Anonymity.In order to protect participant anonymity the trend is away from
allowing participants to use their own names and photos, in favour of made
up names and images.
∙
Intellectual property.It is normal for the terms and conditions for a dis-
cussion or group to specify that the end-client owns the rights to all the ideas
generated during the research.
∙
Acceptable behaviour.The terms and conditions usually specify that the
moderator will determine what is acceptable and what is not (usually including
a statement that profane, sexist, racist, and homophobic language will not
be accepted), and assigning the moderator the authority to edit or remove
comments, and suspend or ban members who break the acceptable behaviour
guidelines.
∙
Rules for the incentives.The terms and conditions should specify what
participants have to do to qualify for incentives. For example, do they have to
respond to every post/question?

82MOBILE FORUMS AND ONLINE FOCUS GROUPS
SUMMARY
The key points to note in the context of mobile forums, discussions, and online focus
groups are:
∙
Moderated qualitative market research approaches, such as focus groups,
forums, and discussions, can normally be made mobile friendly.
∙
Extending mobile market research into the area of moderated qualitative
research does not typically mean creating a mobile only form of research;
it typically means giving participants more choice.
∙
Key reasons for making forums and discussions mobile friendly include increas-
ing the range of people willing to take part and enabling faster responses.
∙
Mobile friendly forums and discussions can leverage the power of mobile – for
example by asking participants to upload photos and videos.
∙
When recruiting participants to mobile forums, discussions, and focus groups,
participants’ attention should be drawn to the requirements, terms, and con-
ditions that apply.
∙
When trying to attract mobile participants to online focus groups, consider
breaking the discussion into more than one session, rather than trying to keep
people online for 90 minutes.

6
Mobile Diaries and
Ethnography
INTRODUCTION
This chapter looks at several mobile qualitative approaches that involve working with
participants to collaboratively explore their lives, the lives of people around them, and
the environment they come in contact with.
The topics covered in this chapter are listed below:
∙
Mobile ethnography:where participants capture slices of their lives and/or
the lives of people around them, as an input to an ethnographic analysis.
∙
Mobile diaries and blogs:where participants record their activity in relation
to a specific topic, for example during the purchase of a mortgage, or whilst
trying a new household product.
∙
Shopper studies:where participants use their mobile device, in effect, to
take the researcher along on their shopping trip.
∙
WE-research:where participants seek out and record their interactions with
the subject of the research, for example every time they see an advert for a
particular category.
∙
Passive tracking:Passive tracking uses the phone or tablet features and sen-
sors to record where the participants go, what they do, and so on. It does this
without any moment-to-moment intervention from participants. These traces
are then reviewed by the researcher as an input to their qualitative analysis.
To some extent, there is a degree of overlap between some of these approaches.
For example, in mobile ethnography, mobile diaries, shopper studies, and WE-research,
participants might be asked to take a specific action when a specific event happens.
They might be asked to take a photo or record a video, or to record how they feel.
The difference tends to be the balance between the various activities, the reason for the
research, and how the data will be analysed. For example, in a mobile diary project, the
participants’ descriptions may be the key deliverable; in an ethnography it is the analysis
and write-up that are the key elements of the project.

84MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
Several of these mobile qualitative approaches use data collection methods that are sim-
ilar to mobile quantitative techniques. For example, a qualitative mobile diary project
might be used to follow 16 participants for a week, capturing information about every-
thing they drink, including images, feelings, and consequences. A quantitative mobile
diary study might have a sample of 400 participants and be based on the answers to
closed questions; captured every time the participants drink something.
TIP:The key difference between a qualitative and quantitative market research
project is often how the information is analysed, which in turn helps determine the
sample size and the nature of the information captured.
MOBILE ETHNOGRAPHY
In mobile ethnography, participants are recruited to use their phones and/or tablets
to collect material about their own lives and surroundings, and the lives of people
around them. This process can be as straightforward as participants taking photos of
some aspect of their lives (e.g. the contents of their wardrobes or kitchen cupboards)
through to enlisting participants in collaborative ethnographic studies where the partici-
pants collect an extensive amount of information and are involved in the analysis of the
material collected.
The main developments in mobile ethnography have come through the use of par-
ticipants’ phones, although there are examples of tablets being used, and it might be
expected that more use will be made of tablets in the future. During the last few years,
a number of specialist market research apps, which allow researchers and participants
to collaborate in capturing and interpreting data via phones, have been developed, for
example Revelation and Ethos.
Collaborating with participants to conduct research focused on the collection of ethno-
graphic data has a number of names. Some of these names relate to variations in what
is being done, others are simply alternative names for the same thing. Amongst the
variations are:
∙
Mobile ethnography
∙
Auto-ethnography (the word auto relates to about oneself)
∙
Smartphone ethnography
∙
Mass anthropology (anthropology has more of a flavour of watching other
people, but in terms of qualitative research the term ‘mass’ can be a misnomer
as it often refers to numbers as small as 20 to 30 participants)
∙
‘WE-research’ (a term we come to later in the chapter).

MOBILE ETHNOGRAPHY85
TIP:Because mobile ethnography is still developing and because of the variety of
names being used, researchers, vendors, recruiters, and buyers should ensure that
everybody involved in a project has a shared understanding of what is planned.
This section on mobile ethnography covers the following topics:
1.A definition of ethnographic data
2.The difference between ethnography and ethnographic data
3.Collaborative ethnography
4.Compensating for differences in device familiarity
5.Mixed-mode approaches to mobile ethnography.
1. A DEFINITION OF ETHNOGRAPHIC DATA
In the context of mobile market research, the term ‘ethnographic data’ refers to
material collected about people’s everyday lives by research participants, using their
mobile devices. Terms like ‘trace data’ and ‘artefacts’ can also be used to describe
ethnographic data. Examples of ethnographic data, in the context of mobile market
research, include:
∙
Photographs
∙
Videos
∙
Audio recordings
∙
Location data from a phone
∙
Text descriptions of what the participant can see or is experiencing.
Ethnographic data (like most qualitative data) tends to be unstructured and not imme-
diately suitable for structured analysis. Research and analysis tools that can store and
manipulate a wide range of unstructured data, such as images, posts, and recordings,
can help considerably. In a mobile ethnography project it is very easy to collect more
data than can be cost-effectively analysed. For example, most researchers allow a time
ratio of 3:1 to analyse video (three hours to analyse one hour of video). Therefore,
the amount of data collected by a mobile ethnography project is normally controlled in
some way. Methods of limiting the amount of data include:
∙
Restricting the number of participants
∙
Limiting the duration of the project
∙
Limiting the size of material collected (e.g. restricting the length of videos to
90 or 60 seconds, or even 30 seconds).

86MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
Some forms of ethnographic data, such as video, can require a substantial amount of
storage space and the cost and logistical implications of transferring ethnographic data
from participants to market researchers can be significant. These issues need to be taken
into account when designing a project that will collect ethnographic data.
TIP:Don’t collect more data than can be analysed with the resources available.
2. THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ETHNOGRAPHY AND
ETHNOGRAPHIC DATA
Ethnography is the analysis of the lived experience, not simply a description of it, and
certainly not just a collection of ethnographic data. Ethnographic data can be interesting
in its own right, but it only becomes an ethnography when it is written up in a way that
captures something useful or informative about the lives of the people being researched.
The difference between ethnographic data and ethnography does not mean that there
is no value in only collecting and sharing ethnographic data. Clients can gain insight by
looking at collections of images, and researchers may find videos or images that help
express their broader findings.
3. COLLABORATIVE ETHNOGRAPHY
Different collaborative ethnographies require different levels of involvement from the
participant. For example:
∙
Collecting ethnographic data about the participant’s own life, usually about one
specific activity, for example shopping, cooking and so on. This type of project
requires informed consent, but is the easiest type of ethnography to achieve –
from a logistical and ethical point of view.
∙
Collecting ethnographic data about people with whom the participants interact.
This process can raise a number of logistical issues, and certainly raises more
ethical concerns (e.g. to what extent have the third parties consented to the
research). Participants should be given advice on what to do and what not to
do. For example, do not take photos in restricted areas or of other people’s
children.
∙
Being involved in the analysis as well as the data collection. At a minimum this
might include ‘member checking’, where the researcher shares their interpre-
tation of the data with the people supplying the data, to check that it appears
coherent and plausible. More fully, this collaborative approach can include
involving the participants as active parties to the analysis process.

MOBILE DIARIES AND BLOGS87
One of the key elements of most collaborative mobile ethnographies is that it is a two-
way process, between the researcher and the participants. Researchers can, typically,
access the material being recorded by the participants and can update the instructions
and requests to the participants.
Collaborative projects are particularly suited to ongoing research communities, where
the project becomes part of the long-term discussion.
4. COMPENSATING FOR DIFFERENCES IN DEVICE FAMILIARITY
In situations where different participants have very different degrees of familiarity with
the devices being used, for example if conducting a project that combines urban pro-
fessionals and rural poor, there is a risk that the data from the less experienced will be
less complete and informative.
Strategies to compensate for differences in familiarity focus on those who are less famil-
iar, for example:
∙
Providing a more detailed briefing.
∙
Conducting depth interviews to supplement the data they collect.
∙
Using co-capture techniques if somebody in the household or extended family
is more familiar with the technology.
5. MIXED-MODE APPROACHES TO MOBILE ETHNOGRAPHY
Mobile devices, such as phones or tablets, might be central to an ethnography project,
but they do not necessarily need to be the only technology used. Other modes and
devices can be combined with the use of mobile devices to make the process easier,
richer, or deeper.
The most common option is to use PCs in addition to mobile devices. If the participants
are posting comments they might find it easier via a PC, and they might also find down-
loading requests, reading training notes, or collaborating on the analysis easer via PC.
Other channels, modes, and devices that can be used in a mobile ethnography include:
telephone calls, face-to-face meetings, digital cameras, audio recorders, and if any of the
participants collect ‘quantified self’ information, this can be included too.
MOBILE DIARIES AND BLOGS
The purpose of mobile diaries and mobile blogs is for participants to record a specific
aspect of their life. This aspect can be a naturally occurring one, such as how they travel
to work, or their lunchtime choices, or it can be an activity created by the researcher,
such as an in-home product test.

88MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
The term ‘mobile diary’ is more typically applied to the use of an app to record par-
ticipants’ activities, and the term ‘mobile blog’ is more typically applied to the use of
a website to record activities. However, many people use the terms interchangeably,
while others ascribe a variety of specific meanings to one or the other. In this section
the term ‘mobile diary’ will be used in cases where both terms are applicable.
Mobile diaries have revolutionized the research diary model and have produced both
quantitative and qualitative approaches. The key improvement is that mobile devices,
particularly phones, are with people all the time, so recording takes place when some-
thing happens. With traditional, paper-based diaries, the participant had to remember
to fill them in, and they had to try and recall what happened.
Another benefit of mobile diaries is that they can capture more than just words and
numbers, they can capture images and video, and they can record time and location.
In many cases, the data collection platforms/systems for qualitative and quantitative diary
studies are the same. The differences arise from factors such as: number of participants,
the depth of the responses they are asked to collect, and the type of analysis the infor-
mation is subject to. In its quantitative form, mobile diary studies typically collect mostly
closed answers and utilize larger sample sizes. Qualitative studies, typically, use smaller
sample sizes, collect more open-ended and visual material, and the analysis focuses on
individuals rather than averages and totals.
Qualitative mobile diaries and blogs can take a number of forms, including:
∙
In-home use tests.
∙
Recording a specific type of activity or situation, for example every time they
feel hungry, when they put fuel in their car, when they consume something, or
when they buy something with cash.
∙
Recording reactions to some activity, for example how they feel every time they
shop, or travel on public transport, or view the news.
∙
Recording the performance of some activity, for example how they were served
in a shop, how well their detergent cleaned their clothes, or the quality of a
bought meal.
∙
Recording a multimedia representation of an aspect of their lives, for example
photos of their breakfast, clothes, or a coffee bought when out and about.
∙
Time initiated responses, for example, a phone can be set to prompt for
input every X hours, at some random interval, or in response to a central
request (e.g. via SMS, IM, email, or directly from the app). The request could
be, for example, ‘How do you feel?’, ‘Where are you?’, or ‘What are you
doing?’

MOBILE DIARIES AND BLOGS89
Because the projects are mobile, it is very simple, and is usual practice, to send/push
reminders to participants to help participants keep the project top of mind.
METHODS OF RECORDING ACTIVITIES
There are many ways for participants to record their activities in a mobile diary or blog.
Participants can send their responses directly to the researcher via SMS, IM, or email.
If the internet is available, the participants can enter their information directly into a
website. If the research is using an app, the participants can enter their information into
their device, and it can be uploaded immediately by the app, or at a later date.
SMS to Blog Capturing ‘Sweaty Moments’
This project was conducted in the UK in 2007 on behalf of a leading deodorant
brand by UK agency Join the Dots, to find out more about women’s ‘sweaty
moments’. Sweaty moments are those times of the day when women become
aware they are sweating. The research needed to be in the moment, as recall
has been shown to be a poor method of researching sweaty moments in terms
of issues such as: how many times it happens, what the main causes are, how it
made women feel, what they did as a consequence.
The project utilized SMS as the core triggering element for the study. During the
first week of the project, the participants (20 women, aged 20 to 40 years old,
with a mobile phone, and home PC access to the internet) were asked to send
a text every time they experienced a sweaty moment. This text was logged on
each participant’s personal blog, which had been created for the research project.
Participants were encouraged to access their blog later in the day to expand the
short text message, to add some context and further information. The participants
edited their blog via a PC.
At the end of the week, the SMS phase was complete and a second phase, based
on asking the women to review and comment on each other’s blogs, took place.
The research captured quantitatively the number of times the participants expe-
rienced sweaty moments and the times of day those moments happened. The
research captured qualitatively descriptions of the triggers for the moment, how
it made the women in the study feel, and the sorts of strategies they employed
to deal with these moments, for example ‘headed home for a shower’, ‘popped
into an air conditioned shop’, and ‘sprayed on some deodorant’.
The format of the material recorded can be as varied as the researcher’s imagination
and the power the chosen device allows. Common options for recording information

90MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
include: text, voice (recorded), video, and pictures. With the right system it is possible
for the time and the location to automatically be added to the data.
The process of recording activities and reactions can be made easier in a number of
ways, for example by assigning common responses to key strokes or using QR codes
to initiate aspects of an app or to enter a specific response.
RESEARCH OVERSIGHT/SUPPORT
One key difference between most paper-based diaries and most mobile diary projects is
that the researcher tends to be aware, in real time, of what the participants are recording
and is able to update requests and provide support and guidance.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MOBILE DIARIES/BLOGS AND
MOBILE ETHNOGRAPHY
The key difference between a mobile diary or blog study and a mobile ethnography is
the analysis, although this is often a matter of degree rather than an absolute difference.
The results of a mobile diary or blog often concentrate on what was happening, rather
than a narrative of the underlying context and motivation. Mobile diaries and blogs are
particularly useful:
∙
For people who may not have the training and experience to conduct a mobile
ethnography.
∙
For projects that do not have the budget for the level of design and analysis
required by ethnography.
∙
Where the research problem is not sufficiently complex to need the power of
ethnography.
SHOPPER STUDIES
Although this category has been termed ‘shopper studies’, the same approach could be
applied to a wide range of activities, such as commuting, holidays, or sports events. The
key element of this approach is to find out as much as possible about a specific activity,
for example shopping.
Shopper studies can be qualitative or quantitative, and again, the difference between the
two tends to be the sample size and the sort of material collected. Qualitative studies
tend to use smaller samples, engage the participants for a longer period of time, and
collect less structured information.

SHOPPER STUDIES91
RESEARCH TOPICS
There are a wide range of topics that a shopper study can focus on and a wide range
of material that can be collected. Typical ones include:
∙
The journey to and from shopping, particularly for those using options other
than a car. In the case of cars, parking and the logistics of getting shopping to
the car can be useful topics to research.
∙
The sequence of stores/shops visited, particularly in a mall or high street.
∙
Reactions to point of sale and in-store promotional material.
∙
Shelves viewed, perhaps including topics such as ‘things I hate’, ‘looks really
cool’, ‘confusing’.
∙
Products purchased. Including where they were in the store, the sequence
within the trip around the store/shop/market, photos of the shopping trip,
from the car parking through to the receipt/bill.
∙
Reactions to the shopping environment, including how it made the shopper
feel.
TIP:The rules about taking photos and recordings in shops/stores (and even within
malls) vary from country to country and even store to store, so the researcher should
check what is allowed and brief participants.
TRIGGERING PARTICIPANT ACTIVITY
The simplest option is to ask the participant to initiate the activity when they go shop-
ping. For example, they may turn on an app, or log into a website at the start of their
shopping trip, or at some point during their shopping trip. If the activities only require
them to use their camera (or video) they can do this as and when appropriate.
If the project is being conducted in conjunction with specific stores then the trigger can
be put in the store, for example messages, QR codes, or via location based/geofencing
techniques such as GPS or iBeacons (which are explained in more detail in the Utilizing
Passive Data chapter).
APPS OR BROWSER-BASED?
In terms of shopper research, apps give a greater range of possible activities, for example
geofencing, tracking movement, and additional ways of initiating activities. An app may

92MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
have the advantage of not requiring the internet to be available when data is being
entered. Browser-based solutions avoid the need for participants to download an app
onto their device and allow participants to sign in from more than one device.
Shopper studies may use a combination of an app and browser-based techniques, with
the app focusing on the ‘in the moment’ data collection and the browser used for
techniques such as online discussions.
WE-RESEARCH
The term ‘WE-research’ was coined by John Kearon and Mark Earls (2009) to distin-
guish it from ME-research (by which they meant ordinary research, conducted by the
researcher on the respondent). The term ‘WE-research’ echoes the way that Charles
Leadbeater (2009) uses the term ‘WE’ in his bookWE-Think. In WE-research par-
ticipants are asked to make a record every time they encounter a particular stim-
ulus or activity. For example, participants might be asked to make a record every
time they see an advert for coffee, hear a particular song, or see a particular product
in use.
Like mobile diaries, WE-research can be applied as either a quantitative or qualitative
method. In its quantitative guise the number of participants is larger and the data that is
collected tends to be closed responses, typically using a questionnaire or similar. Quali-
tative WE-research uses smaller sample sizes and captures qualitative data, for example
photos and/or open-ended comments.
The difference between WE-research, shopper studies, and mobile diaries, and between
all of them and mobile ethnography, is again a matter of degree, intent, and analysis. In
a typical WE-research study the participants are acting as proxies for the researcher,
watching for specific events and reporting on what they find. A mobile diary, typically,
reports on what the participant does, and how he or she feels or thinks. And, a mobile
ethnography takes both the WE-research and mobile diary approach to the next level
of depth and complexity.
Gatorade, Real-time Tracking of Interactions with Experiential
Touchpoints via Mobile Phone
Gatorade is a global sports drink brand owned by PepsiCo, which has a strong
heritage and position in Latin America. In 2011 Gatorade G-Series was launched
in Mexico, creating more of a specialist sports nutrition position. PepsiCo had
a substantial amount of research on the global messaging associated with this
move, but the decision to spend money on sports related experiential touch-
points, such as parks and gyms, was supported more by market experience than

WE-RESEARCH93
specific research, which meant that Gatorade were keen to estimate the value of
their channel investment.
One of the problems that faced Gatorade is that the sort of activities they wanted
to research are not easily picked up by traditional research, for example surveys
asking people to think back over the last week and recall marginal, fleeting events.
Gatorade turned to a MESH Planning and their mobile phone-based Real-time
Experience Tracking.
Gatorade’s study involved 400 participants, 200 each from two key target seg-
ments. The study measured interactions with Gatorade and benchmarked the
results against three other brands, a sports drink, a brand of bottled water, and a
sports brand.
The MESH Planning method is a mixed-mode approach, with the project starting
with a survey, then utilizing SMS for a week, followed by a survey at the end
of the week. The SMS phase identified interactions with branded experiential
touchpoints such as material positioned in gyms. Later in the day the participants
can expand on their SMS entries via an online access point. The interface has
been optimized so that participants can typically enter their feedback in just a
few key presses. The table shows the sort of schema a project might use to
allow participants to enter their encounter with experiential touchpoints (note, for
commercial reasons this is NOT the schema that was used in the Gatorade study):
Example from MESH Planning’s Website
CategoryCodesDescription
BrandA
B
etc.
Nescaf
 ́
e
Kenco
etc.
OccasionA
B
etc.
TV
In store
etc.
Feeling5
4
etc.
Very positive
Fairly positive
etc.
Choice5
4
etc.
Much more likely to choose
Slightly more likely to choose
etc.
A participant might text BB54 to say they saw a store promotion about Kenco,
which was very positive and made them slightly more likely to choose it. The
system records the time of day of the entry.

94MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
Results
The research showed that experiencing a brand touchpoint was associated with
shifts in the educational image statements Gatorade were aiming to shift. The
research also showed that the two segments responded to experiential touch-
points differently. One group was more influenced by messaging and communica-
tions in places like gyms and fitness centres, the other group were more impacted
by social messaging.
The research identified the interaction between TV advertising and experiential
touchpoints and as a consequence Gatorade shifted some of its funding from
TV advertising to experiential touchpoints. The research also provided guidance
on the balance of messages between the three varieties of the G-Series: Prime,
Perform, and Recover.
In summary, the research enabled Gatorade to spend more on experiential touch-
points, tailored outdoor advertising, and more on the Prime variant, and to spend
less on traditional media, generic outdoor materials, and on the Perform variant.
The research and product have been rolled out to other markets, including Brazil.
Key General Learning Points
1.‘In the moment’ research can reveal information and detail about events
that occur during participants’ busy lives, which would tend to be invisible
to traditional, retrospective surveys.
2.SMS is a good medium for this sort of real-time, high frequency feedback.
For participants, it is typically always available and users are familiar with it.
3.SMS can be made more useful by making it easier for participants to
respond.
4.The study benefits from combining mobile with different elements; cap-
turing depth via one mode and ‘in the moment’ with mobile.
PASSIVE TRACKING
With the right apps and smartphones it is possible to collect a substantial amount of
information about what participants do. For example, in terms of shopping, passive
tracking can collect the route to and from shopping (with GPS), movement patterns
within the shopping trip (e.g. how long it took, how many times the shopper stood still
etc.), and the use of the phone during the shopping trip.
With some of the newer, developing technologies, and with the cooperation of the
store, it is possible to track the shopper around the store, sometimes down to locations

PRACTICAL ADVICE95
within aisles and shelves. With the use of devices such as Memoto’s life-logging camera,
the passive data can be extended to collect images of an activity or trip, subject to
having the appropriate permissions.
In terms of mobile diaries and ethnography, passive data can be used to enrich the data
entered by the research participant. Passive data is particularly useful when co-analysed
with the participants, allowing the participants to explore the observational data with
the researcher.
The use of passive data is the subject of a more detailed chapter.
PRACTICAL ADVICE
Mobile specific qualitative research is a highly dynamic field and the rules are still evolving,
however, the following advice, sourced from practitioners, should be of assistance when
designing and implementing a mobile participant research project.
ETHICS AND SAFETY
Ensure that all the relevant permissions have been obtained. This topic is discussed in
more detail in the Ethics, Law, and Guidelines chapter, however, the key points are
listed here:
∙
Check what you are doing is legal in the country where you are doing it.
∙
Check what you are doing is in line with industry codes of good practice.
∙
Evaluate if there are any ways the participants, clients, local partners, or
researcher, could come to harm (anything from physical danger through to
financial loss) and deal with it.
∙
Keep a record of what people have agreed to and ensure that everybody
involved in the project knows the limits of what has been agreed to. For exam-
ple, clients can only distribute images if that was agreed to by the participants.
∙
Make sure that the participants are left feeling that the process was worth-
while.
In many countries pictures of people (and videos) are considered personally identifiable
data and their use is governed by data protection laws and market research codes of
conduct. Care should be taken with all personally identifiable data – informed consent
must be obtained and data should be protected.

96MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
RECRUITING PARTICIPANTS
When recruiting participants for a mobile qualitative project, two key dimensions are:
∙
Finding participants who match the needs of the project. This might be in terms
of demographics, product usage, attitudes and so on. The choice of participants
will be defined by the research design, which in turn is defined by the business
needs that are being met by the research.
∙
Finding participants who have the right sort of mobile device (in terms of tech-
nology and operating system). The issue of having the right devices can be
broadened to include either participants who are (a) already sufficiently com-
petent with their device to be able to take part in the research, or (b) capable
of being taught/trained in how to use their device for the research.
A further consideration, which some researchers add to the mix, is to recruit participants
who are likely to be comfortable with the research tasks. For example, if the tasks include
uploading blogs, the recruitment process might seek to find people comfortable writing
and uploading comments from their phone.
When considering whether to screen respondents by the type of device they use and/or
their comfort levels with using the tools of the research, the researcher should deter-
mine whether this would introduce an unacceptable level of bias into the results. Qual-
itative research designs need to ensure that they do not ignore or miss key findings
because of how the recruitment was organized.
In many cases, researchers use a profiling survey at the start of the project to gather
background information in a structured format. At the end of the project researchers
often use another survey to collect information that the project has revealed as being
of interest.
Sources of recruitment
Many researchers use exactly the same recruitment channels for mobile ethnographies
and diary projects as they use for more traditional qualitative projects, including profes-
sional recruiters, panels, client lists, and communities.
THE DURATION OF PROJECTS
There are no hard and fast rules about what is ‘best practice’, in terms of the length of
a diary or ethnography project, and different researchers report different experiences.
This is not surprising since researchers may be working in different countries, with differ-
ent sample structures, researching different product categories, with different methods,
and with different incentives.

PRACTICAL ADVICE97
However, it is fair to say that, in general, the more onerous the task that participants are
asked to complete, the shorter the timeframe for the study needs to be. Higher incen-
tives can lengthen the timeframe a bit, but many researchers find that higher incentives
soon show diminishing returns. If a topic is more engaging then it is easier to find par-
ticipants who will complete more tasks for more days.
For example:
∙
If a participant is expected to do something six to ten times a day, many
researchers will focus the study to cover a single day.
∙
If a participant is going to be making one or two entries a day, then two to
five days is a popular option.
∙
If the project is intended to cover two weeks, then asking participants to enter
something every other or every third day is popular. This can be combined
with sending reminder prompts to the participants to help them remember to
complete the tasks.
∙
If the project is going to last weeks or even months, the level of activity needs
to be low, perhaps weekly, or sporadically, initiated by reminders or events.
∙
Tasks should be as short as possible, for example asking people to record a
60-second video, or to answer two or three short open-ended questions.
∙
Tasks should be as engaging as possible. For example, collecting photos of
what is in a participant’s pantry is more fun than typing out what is in the
pantry/kitchen cupboard, even though it makes more work for the researcher.
In terms of using incentives, many researchers use some sort of completion criteria for
the payment of the incentives. Two common forms of this are:
∙
Participants are paid an agreed amount per day and a bonus if they take part
every day.
∙
Participants are only paid if they take part every day.
In both cases, the researcher may be faced with cases where the participants were
unable to take part on a particular day because the research software/platform/
connection failed, which raises issues about whether they should receive their incen-
tives. Whilst there are different opinions on this point, the most important thing is to
be clear, at the outset, about the terms and conditions.
TIP:The more onerous a task the shorter the duration of the research should be, and
the higher the required incentive is likely to be.

98MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
BRIEFING PARTICIPANTS
Participants have very different degrees of familiarity with the phones and tablets they
own, and with research processes, so care needs to be taken to ensure that participants
are adequately briefed and supported. In a quantitative study, the briefing process is
often handled by the fieldwork provider. However, in many qualitative projects this role
is much more in the hands of the researcher, sometimes with the software provider
playing a role too.
Example Briefing for a Mobile Diary (being Used to Record Participants’
Experience with a New Product during an ‘In Home Usage Test’ Diary):
1.There are no right or wrong answers so feel free to express your true
feelings.
2.Please be as expressive as possible in your answers. Be as descriptive as
possible so we can imagine we are right there with you. Please feel free
to share your thoughts and feelings whether positive or negative.
3.Please remember to complete all tasks for the day. If you feel like shar-
ing something extra, even if you have completed the number of tasks
required for the day, please feel free to enter more. There is a minimum
number for each day, but there is no limit to the maximum number of
entries.
4.Your entries are spread over different topics and days. So, please follow
the day-wise and topic-wise schedule for each day.
5.Please ensure that when you are taking photos and videos that the area
has enough light and the photos and videos are clear in the preview. If not
please take another photo or video before moving on.
6.While taking photos and videos it can be a good idea to request someone
in your family or in your home to help take the photo or video, on your
behalf, especially when you are showing how you use the product.
7.Please note that all the samples have to be returned, including empty pack-
aging and unused samples of the product. Please ensure you return the
products to the research team and DO NOT discard or throw anything
away.
8.Remember, if you have any questions or queries, please contact the
research team via. ...
Example supplied by MobileMeasure Consultancy Ltd.

PRACTICAL ADVICE99
The researcher needs to determine whether the briefing is going to be face-to-face or
remote. If the participants are few in number and closely geographically located, then a
face-to-face briefing can make sense. However, in many cases the briefing is going to be
remote, because of costs, time scales, and distances. Researchers have reported success
in using techniques such as downloadable videos to make the briefings more effective.
If participants are expected to produce written summaries of what they have seen,
or of their own data, supplying them with examples of what is wanted will help the
participants.
SUPPORTING PARTICIPANTS
Participants should be provided with an easy way to request support if they are having
problems or have questions about the technology, the tasks, or the process. The type of
support offered will vary depending on the logistics of the project. The ideal option is to
provide the participants with a variety of choices, including a local phone number, SMS,
and email. If the project is running over a weekend, then the support should, ideally, be
provided over the weekend too.
However, with multi-country projects, it may not be practical to provide local phone
numbers for voice or SMS, and the support may need to be via email, IM, or the research
platform.
ANALYSIS
The type and depth of analysis conducted in mobile qualitative projects will vary depend-
ing on the needs of the project, its design, the timeframe, the budget, and the experience
and preferences of the researchers. For some diary projects the analysis may be little
more than a coherent organization and presentation of the material collected, allowing
the material to largely tell its own story. For other projects, such as an ethnography, the
analysis will be the construction of a rich and thick narrative.
All of the normal rules and advice about qualitative analysis apply to data collected via
mobile qualitative research, such as grounding the findings in the data and seeking to
triangulate with other sources. However, there are some points that are worth special
mention, given that the data is likely to be rich in photos and video material:
∙
Start the analysis when the project starts. Look at the data, generate hypothe-
ses, and check these with the participants.
∙
Tag and code information as it is collected.
∙
Try to avoid collecting too much data. More is not more if it is repetitive and
if it is more than can be properly analysed with the resources available.

100MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
∙
Seek out tools for organizing the text, photos, and videos.
∙
Try to ignore the quality of the material – a participant who writes well or who
uses their camera well is not more important to the analysis than somebody
whose typing is full of errors and who produces pictures that are dark or a bit
blurred.
∙
Avoid the temptation to use the funniest or most eye-catching material. The
material used in the presentation of the findings should be that which best
conveys the narrative of the analysis, not that which will amuse the most.
∙
When including photos and video in the deliverables, edit them to increase their
ability to add to the narrative being created – this usually means shortening
them and adding captions.
Table 6.1  Key issues to consider when selecting a platform
QuestionIssues to consider
Single or multiple
projects?
Are you going to use the platform for one specific project or for several
projects? If the platform is going to be used for several projects, then
the learning curve can be steeper, but it needs to be more
powerful/flexible in terms of types of projects it will support,
languages supported, and scalability.
Scalable?Can the system cope with larger numbers of participants (say 100
instead of 10), can it deal with multiple projects, can it deal with
extended research teams?
Devices supported?What sort of mobile devices are participants going to be using?
Smartphones, feature phones, tablets?
App, browser, or
both?
Many of the diary and ethnography projects are based on apps, to
ensure that participants can enter data any time they want to. However,
it is not unusual for the platforms to also have a browser-based element,
for example to maintain a blog or to interact with the moderator.
Languages?What languages will the participants be using, what admin languages
does it support?
Field supplier
experience?
If you are using local fieldwork suppliers or recruiters, are they
experienced with the platform, do they have a preference for a
particular platform?
Ease of use?How easy to use is the system for participants, recruiters, and
researchers? For researchers, how easy is it to create, manage, and
update projects?
Analysis?One of the key differences between non-research tools and
research-based solutions is how they support the analysis process. A
researched-based system can help with sorting, coding, tagging,
organizing, searching, exporting, and creating a report.

SUMMARY101
SELECTING A RESEARCH PLATFORM
It is possible to conduct most of the types of research mentioned in this chapter without
specialist software. It is possible to assemble a solution of your own by using software
tools freely available, and it is certainly possible to work with a technology partner to
create a customized solution. However, it is easier and potentially more reliable to use
an existing platform.
Key issues to consider when selecting a platform are shown in Table 6.1.
SUMMARY
Mobile devices are developing rapidly and qualitative researchers are engaged in a
widespread process of experimentation and adaptation, identifying the many ways that
mobile devices can be utilized in qualitative research. Some of these uses are in the con-
text of existing research approaches, or in conjunction with other modes, and these are
explored in the two previous chapters. However, the rapid development and adoption
of powerful and easy to use mobile devices is ushering in new approaches to qualitative
research, in particular new forms of participant mobile research.
The key points that need to be highlighted are:
∙
Participant mobile qualitative research is focused on participants using their
mobile devices collaboratively to create the material for the research.
∙
There are a variety of participant mobile qualitative research approaches, for
example mobile ethnography, mobile diaries, and shopper studies. The differ-
ence between them is usually a matter of degree, and often comes down to
the objectives for the research and the method of analysis, rather than the
way the data is collected.
∙
Because the data is going to be processed qualitatively, and with the tools
currently available, it is usually necessary to limit the amount of information
collected.
∙
Methods of limiting the amount of information gathered include: restricting the
number of participants, restricting the duration of the research, and by limiting
the number of photos and the length of the videos the participants are asked
to capture and upload.
∙
In general, the more onerous the task (e.g. the more times per day the par-
ticipant has to record something) the shorter the duration of the project will
need to be, and the higher the incentive will need to be.

102MOBILE DIARIES AND ETHNOGRAPHY
∙
Good research is more about good design and good analysis than it is about
good software, but good software can make the researcher’s life easier.
∙
Passive data is often thought of as a quantitative tool, but used in combina-
tion with user-entered data it can greatly enrich a mobile qualitative picture,
particularly when analysed collaboratively with the participant.

7
Mobile Quantitative
Research
INTRODUCTION
This chapter provides an overview of mobile quantitative research, providing a context
for many of the later chapters, such as those covering CATI, CAPI, passive tracking, and
in particular the chapter on designing and managing mobile surveys.
The chapter covers:
∙
Defining mobile quantitative market research
∙
Mobile specific research
∙
Mixed-mode projects
∙
Connecting with research participants.
MODES OF DATA COLLECTION
When reviewing mobile quantitative market research the wider context of market
research needs to be considered. Most market research, by spend, is quantitative mar-
ket research. The ESOMAR Global Market Research report for 2013 estimated that, by
spend, 77% of market research is quantitative, 17% qualitative, and 6% other (ESOMAR
2013).
It is important for market researchers, especially researchers from the more developed
markets, to remember that the majority of global data collection is currently not yet
online. Online is currently the most popular research mode for survey research; how-
ever, only approximately 50% of survey research globally uses the online mode. Figure
7.1 shows the share of spend allocated to the leading data collection methods in 2012
(ESOMAR 2013).
While online market research has become the leading methodology in developed coun-
tries, the low levels of internet penetration in many emerging markets have slowed its
global growth. By contrast, mobile phones have very high levels of penetration in most

104MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Mode
Online
Automated digital/electronic
Telephone
Face-to-face
Other quantitative
Online traffic/audience
Postal
Group discussions
In-depth interviews
Other qualitative
Online qualitative research
Other
27%
15%
13%
12%
6%
3%
1%
12%
2%
2%
1%
6%Other
Qual
Quant
% of Global Spend
Figure 7.1Global spend by mode, from 2013 ESOMAR Global Market Research Report
of the world, which increases the potential for mobile to be a truly global research
mode. However, the uneven adoption of more advanced phones and tablets, and data
packages, may still present major challenges for a unified ‘one world’ research approach.
MOBILE IS BIG BUSINESS
By 2014 mobile devices were already being widely used by participants to take part in
market research, with about 20–30% of online studies being undertaken by participants
choosing to use mobile devices and a large proportion of CATI interviews being com-
pleted on mobile phones (Poynter 2014a). The expectation is that over the next few
years the trend will continue and about 50% of online surveys will be conducted via
mobile devices and most CATI will be via mobile (Poynter 2014b).
These two categories of mobile usage are in addition to the growth in mobile devices
used in media measurement, mobile ‘in the moment’ projects, other types of mobile
market research.
DEVELOPED AND EMERGING MARKETS
In the more developed markets, it is increasingly possible to assume that the majority
of people in most target groups will have access to smartphones. In September 2013,
the Pew Research Center estimated that 55% of US adults had a smartphone (Pew
Research Internet Project 2013).
In less developed markets, the picture is more complex. In many of the less developed
markets the penetration of mobile phones is often high. However, a significant pro-
portion of these phones may be older, or more basic, phones, with fewer functions.

DEFINING QUANTITATIVE MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH105
In developing markets many of the more modern phones are not accompanied with
connection contracts that include access to the internet, and the internet coverage can
be unreliable. The options for mobile research in countries where members of the tar-
get sample for the research are unlikely to have mobile phones with internet access is
covered in the chapter on International Mobile Research.
In some of the less developed markets literacy rates can be an issue for any type of
self-completion research, however, this can often be addressed by mobile equipped
interviewers (which is covered in the chapter on mCAPI) and by the use of innovative
approaches to mobile surveys (Williams 2014a).
However, researchers need to be aware, as Hans Rosling (2013) has pointed out, that
the differences between the developed world and developing world are disappearing.
The majority of the world have a mobile phone – smartphones are on their way to
being the new normal. When planning research in different countries researchers should
certainly find out what is possible, but their starting assumption should be that it is
probably possible.
DEFINING QUANTITATIVE MOBILE
MARKET RESEARCH
Mobile quantitative research is a new and emerging field that has created its own char-
acteristics, some of which are quite different from established modes, such as CATI
or online. This section of the chapter provides an overview of the following three key
elements:
1.The relationship between devices and research
2.Apps versus browser-based solutions
3.Active versus passive data collection.
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN DEVICES AND RESEARCH
The key devices used in quantitative market research are phones and tablets, and the
term ‘phone’ is normally sub-divided into feature phone, smartphone, and phablet. The
distribution of these devices amongst the people to be researched is a major determi-
nant of the sorts of research that can be conducted.
In addition to these mobile devices, there is a growing level of interest in devices such
as wearable technology, for example life-logging cameras, GPS tracking devices, and a
range of fitness related devices. The impact of these devices in covered in later chapters,
especially in the Utilizing Passive Data and Evolving Picture chapters.

106MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Table 7.1  Key devices, descriptions, and their uses in quantitative market research
DeviceDescriptionRole in quantitative market research
Non-internet
feature phone
Not a smartphone, no internet
browsing.
SMS (and USSD where available) only.
Internet-enabled
feature phone
Wide variety of devices, they
can usually download
applications, have some but not
all of the features of a
smartphone, may have Wi-Fi.
SMS.
Web surveys, but fewer options.
App-based research.
Some passive data collection.
SmartphonesMostly large touchscreen,
modern operating system, in
terms of 2013 sales, mostly
Android devices and iPhones.
However, the installed base is
the key issue.
SMS.
Web surveys, almost same as PC.
App-based research.
Passive data collection.
‘In the moment’ research.
mCAPI (mobile CAPI).
PhabletsPhones with a larger
touchscreen, typically more
than 5 and less than 7 inches.
SMS.
Web surveys, almost same as PC.
App-based research.
Passive data collection.
‘In the moment’ research.
mCAPI (mobile CAPI).
TabletsTypically with screen size of 7
inches or more. May not have a
SIM, i.e. no link to services
like 3G or 4G, but has Wi-Fi.
Web surveys, almost same as PC.
App-based research.
Passive data collection.
mCAPI (mobile CAPI).
Table 7.1 outlines the key devices, descriptions, and their uses in quantitative market
research.
Note, Table 7.1 contains quite a few technical terms. Most of these terms were intro-
duced in the first two chapters, the key terms are covered in more depth in the glos-
sary, and the concepts and terms are covered further in later chapters, for example
The Technology of Mobile Market Research, Utilizing Passive Data, and The Evolving
Picture. However, the following sections cover the key points that are essential to an
overview of quantitative mobile market research.
MOBILE PHONES
Mobile phones have become almost ubiquitous. By the end of 2013 there were about
as many mobile phones in the world as people, although many people had multiple
phones and about one-third of adults did not yet have a phone. The abundance of
phones means that for many projects, in most countries, a mobile phone is a viable
method of connecting with participants.

DEFINING QUANTITATIVE MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH107
Phones are of interest to quantitative researchers for the following reasons:
∙
More people have a mobile phone than a PC, and more people have a mobile
than a landline, which offers the opportunity to reach more people than most
other modes.
∙
People tend to have their mobile with them, which facilitates ‘in the moment’
research.
∙
The combination of always being available and multimedia (e.g. taking photos
and recording videos) means that participants can be recruited to be active
collaborators in the research process.
∙
Many phones are capable of collecting passive data, tracking such things as
location, activities, and media consumption.
∙
Many phones are capable of triggering research activities, for example at a
specific time of day, when in a specific location, or in response to a signal from
the researcher. For example a store satisfaction study could be triggered when
somebody visits a coffee franchise, or a breakfast study triggered at breakfast
time.
Types of phones
This section very briefly reviews the main categories of phone in the context of quantita-
tive mobile research; more information is available about the general picture elsewhere
in the book.
1.Basic feature phones.These tend to be phones that do not have internet access,
so they cannot be used for web surveys and they cannot be used to download
apps from the internet. These phones might not have internet access because
of the hardware, or they may simply not have access to a contract that provides
access to the internet. In 2014 these were still the most common type of phone
and were being used for SMS-based studies and in a few cases USSD studies.
2.Feature phones internet access.Most of these phones do not have a large
touchscreen, which means that online surveys tend to render differently on PCs
and smartphones – and a number of multimedia question types may not run
on them. Because there are a wide variety of phones and operating systems
within this category, creating downloadable apps can be time consuming and
expensive. These phones are used for SMS, USSD, web surveys, and app-based
research.
3.Smartphones.Smartphones (and phablets) are an established market research
device. Most of the survey platforms support smartphones, although some ques-
tion types are rendered differently on smartphones. Smartphones are also used
for anything a feature phone can be used for, and are often used in passive
tracking projects and with app-based research.

108MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
SMS
In the early days of mobile market research the most widely available mobile option for
surveys was via SMS, and some researchers are still using it, especially in the developing
markets. SMS is a mobile only method as the questions it can ask are strictly limited.
SMS questions tend to be in the format of a short question, asking the participants to
type in a digit for the answer, for example, 1 for Yes, 2 for No, or 3 for Don’t know.
SMS is widely used as a trigger for mobile research, for example sending an SMS message
to participants with a link to a web-based survey.
USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) is used by a few suppliers in some
of the developing markets to conduct market research, but is not available in all mar-
kets. USSD is similar to SMS in that it is text-based (182 characters), but unlike SMS
it connects a phone and computer synchronously (they are both connected to each
other at the same time). In places where USSD is popular it is used for a variety of uses,
for example financial transactions.
Web surveys on smartphones
Touchscreen, large screen phones running powerful operating systems such as Google’s
Android, Apple’s iOS, and Microsoft’s Phone have narrowed the gap between what can
be asked on a PC screen and a phone. The main differences between a PC-based study
and a phone are the size of the screen and potential bandwidth differences (a phone
using 3G will tend to be slower than a device using Wi-Fi or a direct connection).
Most of the differences between a PC and smartphone can be accommodated by chang-
ing the way a question is displayed, something that is typically handled by the survey
platform.
Intentional and unintentional mobile web surveys
Mobile surveys can be thought of as existing on a continuum from intentional at one
end, for example where the survey was designed for mobile and where the participants
were selected because they had a mobile device, through to ‘unintentional mobile’. If a
researcher designs a survey for online, expecting participants to use a PC, and some of
the respondents answer the survey on their phone, that is ‘unintentional mobile’.
Device agnostic
The term ‘device agnostic’ or ‘platform agnostic’ is used by survey platforms to demon-
strate that the surveys they produce are capable of being run on a range of devices, for
example PCs, smartphones, tablets, and in some cases internet-enabled feature phones.
What this typically means is that the survey authoring system allows the user to specify
that a survey should be rendered appropriately on different devices by detecting the
type of device being used.

DEFINING QUANTITATIVE MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH109
However, this does not mean that every available question will run on every device,
when using a standardized survey platform. And, it does not mean that every question
will appear in a similar way on each device, which may or may not impact on the results.
This topic is covered in greater detail later in the book.
An all smartphone future?
In 2014 market researchers were still dealing with a variety of categories of phone,
for example basic feature phones, more sophisticated feature phones, older smart-
phones (such as BlackBerry), and smartphones. However, the future for most market
researchers appears to be focused on smartphones (and phablets), running a very small
selection of operating systems (Williams 2014b)
TABLETS
Participants in online surveys are already using tablets to take part and many research
agencies and fieldwork suppliers have equipped their face-to-face interviewers with
tablets as data collection devices (which is covered in detail in the mCAPI chapter).
Compared with smartphones, tablets have the advantage of having a larger screen, but
also a couple of limitations:
1.Tablets are not carried everywhere with most people in the way their phone is,
so they present fewer opportunities for ‘in the moment’ research.
2.Many tablets do not have a SIM, so they only have an internet connection when
they are connected via Wi-Fi, which can limit their usefulness in ‘on the move’
web surveys.
APPS VERSUS WEB
There are two main ways of connecting mobile devices to research exercises such as
surveys: these are referred to as browser-based and app-based approaches.
Web-based surveys on a mobile device work in the same way as online surveys work
via a PC. The participant uses a browser on their phone to access a hosted survey
via the internet. For this approach to work, the mobile device has to have an internet
connection and the survey has to render (display) correctly for their phone/tablet.
Apps are pieces of software that are downloaded onto people’s phones or tablets.
Although an app usually uses the internet to transfer data back to the researcher, some
research apps do not have to be connected to the internet while the survey or activity
is taking place. The ability to run without an active internet connection greatly increases
the range of situations when the survey or activity can take place.

110MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
An app can respond to a request from a participant to start a survey, but it can also
be configured to initiate a survey, which is described as a ‘push’ approach. For example,
a timer can be set to ask a survey at specific intervals or, at a specific time of day, for
example asking breakfast related questions in the morning. If the device has geolocation
enabled, a survey can be initiated when the participant is near a specific location (such
as visiting a store), something often referred to as geofencing.
Apps have many advantages, but two key disadvantages.
The advantages include not needing the internet to be connected all the time, being
able to store multiple surveys, being able to collect passive data, and being able to trigger
surveys or research activities in a variety of ways.
Being able to collect information when the internet is not currently available is partic-
ularly relevant when collecting ‘in the moment’ data, such as surveys when somebody
is shopping, especially in locations or countries where the internet may not always be
available, and when used in mCAPI.
The two key disadvantages of apps are:
1.Apps have to be written for each major platform that participants might be using.
The move towards Android and Apple operating systems for modern phones
and tablets could mean that this will be less of a problem than it was in the early
days of writing apps.
2.Prospective participants have to be willing and able to download apps onto
their mobile devices. However, this process is becoming more common and
more streamlined.
However, despite these two challenges the use of apps for market research appears to
be growing, especially in the context of panels and communities (Poynter 2014b).
ACTIVE VERSUS PASSIVE DATA COLLECTION
Quantitative mobile market research can be divided into two broad categories, active
and passive:
1.Active research requires the active involvement of participants in the research
process, for example, by completing a survey.
2.Passive market research studies do not involve asking participants questions. In
passive data collection the mobile device records information, for example the
participant’s location, actions, or device usage.

MOBILE SPECIFIC PROJECTS111
Studies can combine active and passive. For example a location-based app might track
a participant’s journey, using GPS and when the participant visits a specific location,
perhaps a mall, the participant might be asked to complete a survey.
Passive Mobile Market Research
Passive data collection is the topic of a later chapter, but its key features are:
∙
Passive data collection usually requires the participants to download an app.
∙
There are some limits to what passive data can be collected, both in terms of
the operating system rules and in terms of things like the system limitations,
such as GPS.
∙
Most areas of market research are not making extensive use of passive data
collection, yet.
∙
One area that is well advanced in terms of passive data collection is media
measurement, whose long heritage of automating the collection of television
viewing and radio listening have helped develop mobile-based solutions.
∙
Some non-research organizations are making extensive use of passive tracking,
from uses as varied as app usage (e.g. Flurry) to location-based marketing (e.g.
ShopKick).
Two common concerns about passive data collection are privacy and running down
the participant’s battery. Privacy is covered in the Utilizing Passive Data chapter and in
Ethics, Laws, and Guidelines.
The issue of battery life stems from the fact that if an app is used consistently then it
can make a mobile device’s battery run down faster. This was a major problem in the
early days of apps, but app developers are getting better at managing battery life.
MOBILE SPECIFIC PROJECTS
This section looks at the types of quantitative market research studies that are designed
specifically for mobile devices, i.e. they are mobile only.
WHY MOBILE ONLY?
In reviewing mobile only studies it is useful to consider why a researcher might want
to conduct a mobile only research project, given that the trend is towards being device
agnostic and giving participants a choice.

112MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Typical reasons for a project being mobile only include:
1.To collect passive data, as people go about their everyday lives.
2.The data needs to be collected, or is better if it is collected, ‘in the moment’,
where ‘in the moment’ typically means as people are using something or imme-
diately after using something. For example, interviewing somebody whilst they
are commuting or immediately after they finish shopping.
3.When mobile gives a more appropriate sample than other similar methods. For
example, in a country where 80% of economically active adults have a phone
and 50% have internet access, mobile may potentially provide access to a better
sample.
4.In order to move from CAPI to mCAPI, a topic that has its own chapter in this
book.
5.To add items like photos and videos to traditional survey responses.
6.When researching the mobile ecosystem, for example mobile advertising.
Researching the Mobile Ecosystem has a chapter of its own later in the book.
7.To conduct research-on-research about mobile data collection.
The sections that follow illustrate cases where some or all of the previous points apply
and where the research tends to be mobile only.
‘In the moment’ data collection
‘In the moment’ research capitalizes on people’s tendency to have their phone with
them all the time. ‘In the moment’ involves enlisting the participant as a collaborator
in the research project. Traditional research is usually based on participants having to
recall events, remembering what happened and how they felt. ‘In the moment’ captures
the details and the responses when the experience is fresh, as some of the examples in
the following sections will illustrate.
‘In the moment’ studies can be triggered in a variety of ways, for example:
∙
The participant launches the activity when appropriate. In the restaurant
example the participant would launch the survey after each relevant meal.
∙
An app might trigger the action, based on a timer, or location, or some other
factor.
∙
The researcher may send a message when the activity should take place.
‘In the moment’ studies with mobile devices also offer the opportunity for the participant
to capture photos and video. Although in the context of a quantitative study, this needs
to be handled with care to avoid data overload.

MOBILE SPECIFIC PROJECTS113
More appropriate samples
An example of mobile devices providing a more representative sample is provided by
the French company Elipss, who have created a panel of 6000 people. The panel were
selected via random probability and were all given an internet connected tablet. This
created a sample source that is both internet-enabled and broadly representative of the
group they are seeking to represent.
Quantitative diaries
Consumption tracking is used to explore people’s purchasing behaviour, especially for
impulse products, where the consumption is often not planned or happens ‘on the fly’.
For example, a drinking study might request participants to log every drink they consume
in a 24-hour period. Items recorded might include:
∙
What was the drink?
∙
What brand, if relevant?
∙
Where was it consumed?
∙
Was it bought and if so from where?
Studies into drinking conducted this way have revealed, for example, interesting differ-
ences in where at home people drink their first hot drink of the day, and the use of
energy drinks at different times of the day. Details like time of day can be collected
automatically, and in some cases location can be collected automatically.
In-home product placement testing
In-home placement tests can utilize both phones and tablets. For example, when con-
ducting in-home placement tests for products such as face cream, the participants can
capture pictures of their faces as different stages of the day, and in different stages of
product usage, in addition to quantitative information.
In the more developed markets, online, PC-based in-home tests are common, but in the
developing markets, using mobile devices can greatly extend the range of participants.
Real-time brand or media monitoring
Mobile data collection can be useful for monitoring people’s interactions with brands,
advertising, or promotions, especially for low attention products and services. Par-
ticipants are recruited to log product or service experiences, as and when they
happen.
Participants can also be recruited to monitor and record their interactions with media
channels, using a combination of active and passive data collection.

114MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Mystery shopping
Mystery shopping is used to evaluate a wide range of phenomena, including customer
service, the implementation of campaigns, and product placement/presentation. Mobile
surveys make it easier for the mystery shopper to record observations during the
shopping experience, or immediately afterwards. With GPS-enabled phones, real-time
geotagging can be added to give potentially accurate readings for outdoor advertising
research. QR code readers or barcode scanners can be used to track and identify spe-
cific products. A mystery shopper can also use a mobile device to add photographs or
video to the task.
However, these tools also require that the researcher understand and observe the
ethical issues that arise with recording or photographing of anything, including customers,
displays, and store personnel. These are discussed in a later chapter on Ethics, Laws, and
Guidelines.
Customer experience/satisfaction
Mobile surveys are ideal for fast, non-intrusive feedback immediately after or even dur-
ing a purchase or service experience. For example participants might be recruited to
complete a research activity every time they eat a meal in an agreed set of restaurants.
Because the data is entered straight away and in the context of a specific location the
survey can be short, the memories will be fresh, and the data can be supplied to the
client far faster than a traditional customer satisfaction tracker.
There are a growing number of ways of triggering experience surveys, such as QR codes,
barcodes, geofencing (using options such as GPS or iBeacons). Triggering mechanisms
are covered in more depth in the Utilizing Passive Data and The Technology of Mobile
Market Research chapters.
Passive data collection
Mobile phones and tablets contain a large number of features and sensors and these are
increasingly being used to collect passive data, such as the routes taken by participants
on shopping trips. Utilizing Passive Data is the subject of a later chapter.
Passive tracking raises a large number of ethical and legal issues, and these are covered
in a later chapter, Ethics, Laws, and Guidelines.
Adding multimedia to a quantitative survey
If a quantitative project needs, or would benefit from, photos, videos, or audio record-
ings, then the logical data collection device is a mobile device. This approach is likely to
become even more attractive when techniques for handling large amounts of multime-
dia information improve.

MIXED-MODE STUDIES115
Retail measurement
In developed markets, retail measurement is increasingly automated, with large format
stores dominating sales channels and online channels growing rapidly. However, in the
developing world, the ‘mom and pop’ stores still dominate in many key and emerging
markets.
Traditionally, in these developing markets retail measurements have been very labour
intensive and potentially error strewn. The last 20 years have seen a move towards
automation, based on mobile devices. The initial steps were to use handheld devices,
such as PDAs. However, more recently the move has been towards mobile devices, i.e.
both phones and tablets.
MIXED-MODE STUDIES
Mixed-mode, or hybrid, studies can be divided into two broad categories:
1.Studies where some participants use one form of data collection, whilst others
use another form of data collection. For example, some participants might use a
PC to take part in an online study, and others might use internet-enabled phones.
2.Studies where more than one device is used by each participant, at different
stages of the project. For example, participants might use their phone to keep a
mobile diary for a week, before attending a face-to-face depth interview.
Later in the book there is a chapter specifically on mixed-mode research, but the section
below covers the key points that quantitative researchers need to keep in mind.
DIFFERENT MODES CAN CREATE DIFFERENT DATA
If some participants see a survey on their PC, some on a large tablet, some on a smart-
phone, and some on an internet-enabled feature phone the results could be impacted
by the different modes. As the Research-on-Research chapter illustrates, in most cases
the differences found to date are small, but whenever different participants use different
modes the researcher needs to check for mode effects.
INTENTIONAL AND UNINTENTIONAL MIXED-MODE STUDIES
As mentioned earlier in the chapter, estimates are that 20–30% of online surveys are
being completed via mobile devices, which means most researchers conducting online
research are already conducting mixed-mode research. For some researchers this will
be the result of an active decision to use device agnostic research, this is intentional
mixed-mode research.

116MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
Researchers need to check if there are mode effects, otherwise the scale of any prob-
lems will go unnoticed.
The next chapter, Designing and Conducting Mobile Surveys discusses best practices
for handling this sort of mixed-mode project.
PASSIVE DATA COLLECTION AND MIXED MODE STUDIES
If the researcher wants to collect passive data it is unlikely that the research can combine
PCs and mobile devices because the procedures for including passive recording software
tend to be different between PCs and mobile devices. The main exception is studies
looking at media or internet usage and consumption, where the ability to measure both
PC and mobile data is considered vital.
MULTIPLE MODES PER PARTICIPANT
If the researcher wants the participants to use different devices at different stages, they
need to make this clear and monitor compliance. For example, if one part of the project
is supposed to be collected ‘in the moment’ it is worth checking that it is not being
entered at the end of the day via a PC.
CONNECTING WITH PARTICIPANTS
Until recently the process of finding participants for mobile research has been less devel-
oped than those for online, CATI, and face-to-face, but that is changing fast. In particular,
there are a growing number of panels available. Some of the key methods of connecting
research projects with mobile participants are outlined in the next section.
MIXED-MODE ONLINE STUDIES, VIA PC AND MOBILE
The most common reason for this type of mixed mode study is to offer the participants
the choice of device, to increase convenience to the participants to ideally increase
cooperation rates and the range of people who are able to take part. Therefore, in
most cases, when conducting a mixed-mode study via PC, tablet, and phone, there are
no particular quotas for the proportion of participants answering via each device.
In terms of decreasing order of popularity the methods of recruiting and connecting
with participants are:
1.Via an online access panel, research community, or similar. The panel emails
a survey link and invitation to suitable panel members, describing the range of
devices the survey is suitable for. The survey should also check that it is being
viewed on an appropriate device.

CONNECTING WITH PARTICIPANTS117
2.Via members of a client customer list. With this option the client or the
researcher defines an appropriate sample to invite, and the invitation includes a
link to the survey, and information about the range of devices suitable for the
study.
3.Through links placed on websites, QR codes on products, URLs included in
letters, via links on pop-ups, through social media, or as part of a newsletter.
Again, the invitation needs to alert participants to the requirements of the study,
and the device should be checked when the survey is commenced.
MOBILE ONLY, ONLINE SURVEYS
Key options include:
1.Access panels. A growing number of access panels have mobile samples available.
2.Research communities. Some communities are mobile only, but the majority are
centred on either PC usage or an online device agnostic approach. Community
members with suitable mobile devices can be recruited for mobile only studies.
Ensuring members are profiled in terms of devices owned and willingness to do
mobile projects is an important part of this process.
3.Client lists. With client lists the key issue is to ensure that they are up to date
and that the recipients of invitations realize they need to use their mobile device.
The invitation and URL can be sent via email or SMS.
4.Via traditional recruiters or recruitment approaches. This route is more common
in the less developed research markets, and can include door-to-door recruit-
ment, telephone, and even postal recruitment.
5.Through links placed on websites, QR codes on products, URLs included in
letters, via links of pop-ups, through social media, or as part of a newsletter.
Again, the invitation needs to alert prospective participants to the requirements
of the study, and the device should be checked on the commencement of the
study.
MOBILE ONLY, APP-BASED SURVEYS, AND PASSIVE DATA
When connecting with mobile participants for an app-based study whether for sur-
veys, passive data collection, or some combination of these, there is often a need for
a higher degree of contact between the researcher and the participant (or between
the provider of the survey and the participant). This is because there is often a need
to brief the participants on how to download and activate the app, ensuring that there
is informed consent, and helping the participant to remove the app after the study is
complete.

118MOBILE QUANTITATIVE RESEARCH
All of the recruiting and connecting routes outlined for web-based surveys are suitable
for app-based research, provided that the appropriate level of support can be achieved.
However, some panel companies might be reluctant to facilitate the download of apps
on their members’ devices, and the response rates from routes such as links on websites
can be much lower when prospective participants are required to download an app
from an organization with which they have not had a prior relationship.
PANELS AND COMMUNITIES WITH APPS
A growing number of panels and communities have their own research app and will
have members who have already downloaded the app. If the panel or community app
is suitable for the proposed research there is no need for participants to download
anything and the process can be relatively seamless for the researcher.
SUMMARY
Most observers expect mobile market research will become a major mode of quantita-
tive data collection over the next few years, perhaps even the dominant method. Key
issues that will shape the future of mobile quantitative market research will include:
∙
The balance between apps and web-based solutions
∙
The balance between active and passive research
∙
The growth of ever more powerful smartphones
∙
The growth of tablets and phablets
∙
The global increase in data connection speeds, declining cost of data connec-
tions, and the growing penetration of devices connected to the internet.
Key issues about mobile quantitative research include:
∙
The need to know what sort of mobile devices the participants are likely to
have and to design the research accordingly.
∙
The types of devices available, the options for recruiting the sample, and the
likelihood of the internet being available will guide the decision about whether
to use browser-based or app-based approaches.
∙
If passive data is going to be collected, then apps are probably going to be
necessary.

SUMMARY119
∙
Most online research is already mixed-mode, with about a quarter of online
participants using mobile devices, so researchers should be accommodating
them and checking for mode effects.
∙
The key benefits that mobile brings are: ‘in the moment’ research, a wider
range of potential participants, and the potential for passive data collection.
∙
In the newly emerging markets mobile research offers the chance to skip tech-
nologies, potentially bypassing CATI and PC-based online.

8
Designing and
Conducting Mobile
Surveys
INTRODUCTION
In order to provide a clear and relevant focus to this chapter the majority of the chapter
looks at mobile surveys conducted via smartphones and tablets, utilizing web-based
approaches and samples sourced from panels and communities. In particular, the
context is:
∙
The research will be conducted via a mobile survey using a self-completion
approach.
∙
The survey will be completed on a smartphone, tablet, or phablet.
∙
The survey will be online and browser-based.
∙
The survey will be created via a survey platform or software system, using the
features of the platform, i.e. it will not be custom-built.
∙
The survey will be fielded via a customer list, or from an access panel, or via
an insight community.
Other forms of recruitment and the use of apps are included where appropriate and,
in particular, toward the end of the chapter. It should be noted that many of the design
principles that apply to smartphone mobile research apply to other forms of mobile
research.
This chapter draws heavily on the research-on-research reported at the end of the book
for the advice presented.
ONLINE MOBILE SURVEYS
Online mobile surveys are surveys that are hosted on the web and accessed from mobile
devices via browsers. This type of research can be mobile only, i.e. all the participants are
using mobile devices, or they can be mixed-mode, with some participants using mobile

ONLINE MOBILE SURVEYS121
devices and some accessing the survey from a PC. It is claimed that about 20–30% of
all online survey participants are using mobile devices.
This section of the book focuses on online mobile surveys conducted via the main sam-
ple sources, with participants using smartphones and tablets. In many markets feature
phones are still a major part of the online mobile survey picture, and in many markets
the organized sample options are fewer.
PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
In many cases the sample for online mobile surveys comes from the same three sources
as online surveys, i.e. panel companies, client lists, and online communities. This is the
subject of a whole chapter later in the book.
Working with organized providers of sample reduces the need to focus on invitations,
incentives, and participant support. However, most panels and communities are cur-
rently more online than mobile focused, which means care needs to be taken in coun-
tries where the relevant mobile population is larger than the online population. This is
a topic covered in the Panels, Lists, and Communities chapter.
SURVEY PLATFORMS
A survey platform is a software system that allows the user to create surveys using
a survey language or a graphical interface. The sorts of platforms focused on in this
chapter will host the survey on the internet and participants use a browser on their
mobile device to access it.
Key elements in using a survey platform for mobile online surveys are:
∙
Creating the survey. Many of the survey platforms operate as software as a
service (SaaS), instead of having the software installed on the researcher’s
computer.
∙
Making the survey available on the internet, often referred to as deploying.
∙
Making the survey available to the participants, for example by using email or
SMS to send a link to the survey – this stage is often called fielding the study.
∙
The survey platform stores the completed surveys and provides a range of
management statistics, for example completes, quotas, and top line results.
∙
Once the study is completed, the platform allows the researcher to export the
data, as a file, for analysis and reporting. Some survey platforms have analysis
and reporting options as part of the platform.

122DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
One important feature of some survey platforms is the ability to detect the sort of device
a participant is using, and to ensure that the right version of the survey is presented to
the participant. For example, if a participant is using an iPhone they will see a survey
rendered for an iPhone and if they are using a PC they will see a survey suitable for
aPC.
The advantage of using a survey platform is that it makes the survey creation process
cost-effective, efficient, predictable, reliable, and it allows people with a limited knowl-
edge of technology to create and deploy surveys. The majority of online mobile surveys
are conducted via software platforms specializing in market research software.
The alternative to a standardized survey platform is to create custom-built surveys.
The advantage of a custom-built solution is that the researcher does not have to fit
their research design into what the standard systems offer. The disadvantages are that
custom-built solutions are often slower to create and more expensive.
ONE STOP SOLUTIONS
Many of the sample providers, especially access panels, provide a one stop solution
where they script the survey, provide the sample, host the survey, and deliver data and
in some cases tables and analysis. Even when outsourcing the scripting of the survey,
the researcher still needs to be aware of the design implications for mobile surveys.
DESIGNING FOR MOBILE
This section of the chapter looks at the core design issues for mobile surveys, in the
context of the assumptions stated above. However, many of the points made in this
section will be equally true of apps, custom-built solutions, and research via feature
phones.
The key design issues are:
1.The length of the survey
2.Whether to optimize for mobile or for comparability
3.Fitting questions onto the screen
4.Fitting the style of the device
5.Fitting the available bandwidth
6.Data about the survey process.

DESIGNING FOR MOBILE123
THE LENGTH OF THE SURVEY
There is a broad consensus within the market research community that mobile surveys
should be shorter than the length that has become the norm for online and telephone
surveys. There is no definitive view on how long mobile surveys should be, but rec-
ommended ranges seem to vary from two minutes to about 12 minutes. However,
there are some much longer surveys being conducted, both as unintentional mobile and
even as mobile only studies. This issue is covered further in the Research-on-Research
chapter.
Mobile surveys sometimes take longer
When working with mobile surveys, researchers need to consider that a mobile sur-
vey can take longer to complete than the same survey completed via a PC, especially
when the survey is one designed for a PC, and rendered by the survey platform as a
mobile study.
The data reported in the Research-on-Research chapter suggests that when a survey
is designed for a PC, it often take 1.5 times as long to complete on a smartphone and
about 1.25 times as long on a tablet.
But mobile is not always longer
However, the comparison between the time taken to complete a survey on a PC and
a phone potentially misses a key point about designing mobile surveys. A well-designed
mobile study can be faster than a standard PC survey. In this case ‘well-designed’
means using approaches such as shorter, more intuitive questions, reducing the length
of answer lists, and reducing the amount of text used for each of the answers.
Designing shorter surveys
Shorter surveys are felt to be good because they reduce satisficing (Chudoba 2011),
reduce dropouts (Chudoba 2010), and provide a better experience to the research
participant.
The approaches in Table 8.1 can make a contribution to shortening surveys.
OPTIMIZING FOR MOBILE OR FOR COMPARABILITY?
A mobile study has the opportunity to make the most of its benefits, being ‘in the
moment’, on the move, able to include passive data, able to use new types of ques-
tions, and potentially including the capture of photos and video. However, against those
opportunities there is sometimes pressure to make the results comparable with either

124DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Table 8.1  Approaches that can make a contribution to shortening surveys
ApproachDescription
Develop a narrative flow for the
survey.
Questionnaires should be like a conversation, the participant
should be able to see where they go next, which reduces the
cognitive load on the participant, and makes it more
engaging.
Is every question really
necessary?
Review the questionnaire against the research and business
objectives, ensure that each question links to at least one of
the business and research questions. Even if a question links
to the objectives, consider if it is adding something unique
or useful.
Shorten the questions.Shortening questions often makes them less ambiguous and
more intuitive. For example, instead of saying ‘Which of the
following cars is your favourite? (Please select one)’, just
ask ‘Favourite car?’ followed by the answer list. With a
good narrative flow and the right question type and text the
meaning should be clear.
Shorten the number of answers.In many cases the number of answers relevant to a
respondent is quite limited. If 80% of people are picking the
same four options, perhaps, four options in an answer list
are enough, supported with an ‘Other’ option or a method
for the participant to see an extended list of options? A
more sophisticated method of shortening answer lists is to
tailor them to specific participants, for example creating
consideration lists based on earlier answers, meaning
different participants see different lists.
Shorten the length of the
answers.
Shorter answers make the survey easier to read, quicker to
interpret, and help the study fit on a small screen, reducing
scrolling.
Can you answer the question
without asking it?
Access panels and insight communities store profile
information and other information. If age, gender etc. can
be read from the data source they do not need to be asked as
questions.
Remove irrelevant visuals.Irrelevant visuals can include things like: the logo of the
survey platform and/or the client. Irrelevant visuals can
slow down the load and make reading the screen slower.
Ensure that visual elements
load quickly.
When images are needed, ensure that they load as quickly
and easily as possible. Don’t send large images to a small
screen across 3G connections, utilize smaller/lower
resolution images.
Consider ‘chunking’ the
survey.
Chunking a survey means breaking it into segments and
asking participants to complete the survey one segment at a
time. This is also referred to as modularizing (OnDevice
Research).
Use shorter, more frequent
surveys.
This is a useful approach in general, and particularly true
when the sample is from an insight community.

DESIGNING FOR MOBILE125
historic data, or with data collected via PCs, if the study is being collected via both
mobile device and PC.
The owner of the research project has to make the final call about the risks of losing
comparability against the benefits of optimizing the mobile survey.
FITTING QUESTIONS ONTO THE SCREEN
In most cases, mobile survey questions should fit on the screen without the participant
having to scroll left and right, and only requiring intuitive up and down scrolling. The
questions should be designed either for the smallest screen likely to be used, or the
question should be rendered differently on different sized screens.
Many of the processes necessary to make a standard market research question fit on a
small screen have to be dealt with by the software platform, but some are in the hands
of the researcher.
Fitting to the screen – the researcher’s role
Key steps that the researcher can take to help the questionnaire fit on the screen
include:
∙
Many of the shortening approaches mentioned previously, e.g. shorter ques-
tions, shorter answers, and shorter answer lists.
∙
Choosing layouts, skins, designs that maximize the space for the questionnaire,
and reduce branding, logos, footers etc.
∙
Checking what options the survey platform offers; sometimes, for example,
there may be two or more ways of rendering a grid or a slider – choose the
one that works best for the questionnaire being created.
∙
Think about asking questions in a different way. Could that 10-point scale just
as easily be a 5-point scale? Could a grid question be asked as five separate
questions?
Fitting to the screen – what the software can do
Many of the processes required to make a standard market research question fit on
a small screen are handled by the software. In this case, the researcher may be able
to influence this through their choice of survey platform, but if that is not an option,
the researcher at least needs to know how the question will be rendered on different
devices.
Figures 8.1, 8.2, and 8.3 show comparisons of how the same question might appear on
different mobile devices.

126DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Figure 8.1Example of a single response question displayed on different devices. Example sup-
plied by MobileMeasure Consultancy Ltd.

DESIGNING FOR MOBILE127
Figure 8.2Example of a multiple response question displayed on different devices. Example
supplied by MobileMeasure Consultancy Ltd.

128DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Figure 8.3Example of a grid question displayed on different devices. Example supplied by
MobileMeasure Consultancy Ltd.

DESIGNING FOR MOBILE129
FITTING THE STYLE OF THE DEVICE
As well as fitting on the screen, a mobile survey should fit the style of the device. If
a survey is on an iPhone it should look and behave like an iPhone app behaves. Most
of this is the responsibility of the software, but there are things the researcher should
remember to do, such as asking the participant to ‘tap’ rather than ‘click’, and ‘pinch’ to
‘zoom’inorout.
FITTING TO THE AVAILABLE BANDWIDTH
Bandwidth is the capacity of a network to transfer data. If your survey includes lots of
downloads (e.g. high resolution images or videos) it might run very slowly or even time
out for some participants. If the survey is going to be conducted in a market where high
speed (e.g. 4G) mobile is the norm (such as Singapore or South Korea) then the survey
can make greater use of uploads and downloads. However, in most markets (both
developed and less developed) mobile coverage is variable and speeds are often slow.
For the researcher the main way of fitting a survey to the bandwidth is to minimize
the number of images, the size of images, and the size of videos that are going to be
downloaded as part of the survey. With some platforms the researcher can specify
more than one image (e.g. a high and low resolution image) and the system will use the
appropriate option.
If an app is being used, or if the survey is being custom built, then some more options are
possible, such as downloading media files at the start of the survey, in the background,
so they are ready when needed. And, if media uploads are being used, allowing them
to be stored on the device until the internet and sufficient bandwidth are available.
DATA ABOUT THE SURVEY PROCESS
‘Paradata’ is a term used to describe data about the data collection process, and is
used to help understand how a survey is working. For example, the survey platform can
determine how long surveys are taking, what questions are causing the biggest delays,
and where dropouts are occurring.
Mobile devices can provide a considerable amount of information, such as the model
and make of the device and in some cases location. This sort of information is called
‘passive data’ and is covered in the Utilizing Passive Data chapter.
The researcher should determine what paradata can be collected, decide what should
be collected, and ensure that permission to collect this data has been obtained. At a
minimum, the researcher should normally seek to collect the screen size, the operating
system, the browser, and the mobile device model and make.

130DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
The data about the data collection process can be used to improve the survey and it
will enable the researcher to test for mode effects (described later in this chapter).
MANAGING MOBILE STUDIES
Having designed a mobile survey, the steps in managing the project are:
∙
Testing
∙
Launching
∙
Monitor and support
∙
Analysis.
TESTING
Testing mobile surveys tends to take longer than testing surveys for most other modes,
because there are usually more variations among mobile devices. Researchers should
test the survey on the key types of devices they expect participants to use.
If the survey doesn’t work correctly on some devices then some of the options to
consider are:
∙
If the problem is caused by just one or two questions, or just one type of ques-
tion, consider amending the survey to make it work on the devices being used
in the study. For example, if slider questions do not work on some devices, with
the survey platform being used, consider using scales or open-ended numeric
questions.
∙
The problem questions can be asked in a different way for non-compliant
questions, for example converting sliders to open-ended numeric questions.
∙
If the questions that do not work are not core questions, consider skipping
them for users with non-compliant devices, for example if they relate to photo
or video uploads.
∙
If the non-compliant devices are a small part of the target population, identify
those devices, avoid inviting them, and if some do start the survey, close the
survey in a way that is respectful of the participant.
It should be noted that asking questions in different ways to different participants, or
screening out some devices, or skipping some questions for some participants can intro-
duce biases.

MANAGING MOBILE STUDIES131
Testing mobile surveys is broadly similar to testing online surveys, but with more variants.
The better survey platforms have tools to indicate possible faults and to assess compat-
ibility with different devices and operating systems. Many systems also have options to
run thousands of test dummy interviews to check that all parts of the survey are being
reached and that the questionnaire works at a superficial level.
One common approach to testing is to test the survey thoroughly on one platform and
then test that it works and ‘looks right’ on the other platforms.
TIP:A good test is for the researcher to go through the survey as a respondent,
checking that the survey does what was intended. The best way of doing this is with
a printed copy of the questionnaire in one hand (or on a separate screen) and to
repeatedly go through the questionnaire until every element of the questionnaire has
been seen and checked.
Mobile surveys can be tested by launching the survey on a range of devices and checking
how they perform. However, many survey platforms have an emulator facility, which
allows the survey to be tested on a PC. Different researchers have different views about
how good emulators are, so the best advice is to try it and see, and check what your
company’s view is.
One key best practice in mobile surveys is to use a soft launch. In a soft launch the
researcher releases a small number of survey invitations until 20 to 50 completed surveys
have been achieved. These completed interviews (and any partial interviews) should be
checked to ensure that the survey appears to be working correctly, for example that
there is no missing data and that the routing is working as intended.
LAUNCHING
If the mobile project is being handled via a panel company or community, the details of
the launch, including the precise time of day of the launch may be out of the individual
researcher’s control, but if client lists or other sources are being used then the researcher
may have more input.
At the moment there is not a large amount of research-on-research about launching
mobile online surveys, so most of the advice about using email invitation relates to online
research in general. The advice tends to be to send emails at a time when people are
likely to read them promptly, not at times of day when emails are going to get lost in
inboxes. The research-on-research on mobiles does suggest that mobile users tend to
respond faster than participants using a PC, which increases the desirability of sending
emails at times of day that make it more likely they will be seen straight away.

132DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Sending emails during the late morning, afternoon, and early evening are all good
options, if the email is expected to be read on a mobile. The weekends can be a
good time, but avoiding unsuitable times can be important. In a religious country, send-
ing invitations at a time when people are likely to be worshipping is not great; if the
research is targeting sports fans, the emails should not be sent when people are going
to be involved in events.
If invitations are going to be sent via SMS, then the researcher needs to avoid sending
invitations at times of day that are going annoy participants. In many cases this means
sending the invitations between 9am and 8pm, during the week, and something like
11am to 8pm at the weekends. However, in countries where there are time differences,
such as the USA and Australia, care needs to be taken to either narrow the time bands
used, or to know where the participant is and factor this into the timing.
MONITOR AND SUPPORT
As well as testing a survey before it is launched, a survey needs to offer support to
participants during fieldwork, particularly if the participants are not familiar with the
type of survey being used, for example if a project has moved from online to mobile.
Good practice ideas for support include:
∙
Telling participants what devices the survey supports at the invitation stage,
telling the participant if they will need to download anything, whether the survey
uses sound, and how long the survey is likely to take.
∙
Telling the participant how they can access support (ideally both an email
address and a telephone number).
∙
Automatically detecting the hardware being used by the participant and letting
them know if there is a problem.
∙
Providing support information and help from within the survey itself; many
platforms support this on an individual question level.
∙
Providing an open-ended question at the end of the survey for participants to
leave comments and ensuring that open-ended responses are monitored.
The progress of the fieldwork should be monitored from the initial soft launch until
the close of the study. Most survey platforms have a variety of monitoring reports and
dashboards. Key items to monitor include:
∙
How quickly are participants responding?
∙
Dropout rates?
∙
Are some devices causing more problems than others?

CONVERTING STUDIES TO MOBILE133
∙
If people are dropping out, what questions are they dropping out on?
∙
The contents of open-ends to see if participants are highlighting problems?
∙
Quotas and top line results.
∙
The use of ‘Other’, ‘Don’t Know’, and ‘None of these’, and unanswered
questions.
ANALYSIS
Most aspects of analysing data from mobile are the same as data from other modes,
but there are some important specific considerations, including:
∙
Looking for differences between the data from one type of device and another,
for example between tablets and smartphones, or smartphones and feature
phones, or even between iPhone and Android.
∙
If passive data, such as GPS location, has been collected this needs to be
combined with the survey data for the analysis.
∙
If multimedia has been collected (for example photos and videos) then this
needs to analysed, which is often a much more time consuming process than
analysing the survey responses.
CONVERTING STUDIES TO MOBILE
Converting studies to mobile, as opposed to designing a new mobile study, tends to
take two forms. The first case relates to ongoing projects, such as tracking studies. The
second case is when a previously fielded survey is re-used, either in its entirety or as the
basis of a new survey. Many product and concept tests fall into this second category.
This section of the chapter looks at the issues that confront researchers when con-
verting a study from other modes to mobile. However, the first question that should
be addressed is whether a conversion is the right approach, or whether a fresh start,
maximizing the benefits of the new mode, is the best option. A change from one mode
to another can often be a good opportunity to re-think a project, to trim out sections
no longer necessary, and optimize for the new mode.
This section looks at three common conversions:
∙
From face-to-face
∙
From CATI
∙
From online via PCs.

134DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
SAMPLE AND MODE EFFECTS
When moving an existing survey from one mode to another (e.g. from face-to-face to
mobile) there are two major factors that need to be taken into account:
1.Mode effects.For example, a participant may answer the same question one
way when asked by an interviewer but in a different way when the survey is
self-administered, with no interviewer present.
2.Sample effects.One mode may attract different types of participants than
another, creating different results. For example, a central location, face-to-face
study will often find it easy to recruit people whose lives are less busy and
who shop in person, whilst a mobile study might increase the proportion of
busy people, including online shoppers, but it may be less attractive to the
over-sixties.
Mode effects and sample effects do not mean the information is necessarily better or
worse, just that it is different. For example, two reasons to use mobile surveys are to
broaden the range of people who can be reached (a sample effect), and to interview
people ‘in the moment’, when the experience is fresh (a mode effect).
Differences between one mode and another do not imply one is better than the other,
but they do mean that it can be harder to compare the results, and differences can
cause problems for end-clients, for example if benchmarks or norms are in place.
Whenever a new mode is used, the researcher should check for mode and sample
effects, and this is true when mobile surveys are being used as a replacement for another
mode (or alongside another mode).
The process of testing and dealing with mode and sample effects is covered in market
research methodology text books, so the description here is simply a quick note of the
data that needs to be collected and the elements of looking for these effects:
1.The individual data records need to have their mode attached. If some of the
data was collected on feature phones and some on smartphones, this needs to
be recorded.
2.Look for sample effects first. In this example, the researcher might look to see
if the demographics of the feature phone owners were different to the smart-
phone owners. If there are differences, then there are sample effects.
3.Control for sample differences and see if there are differences by mode.
If sample and mode effects are found the researcher and research owner have to decide
what the best strategy is. Common options include:

CONVERTING STUDIES TO MOBILE135
∙
Changing the sampling process to re-balance the data.
∙
Weighting the data to change the sample balance.
∙
Modelling the data to make it comparable.
∙
Accepting and noting that there has been a change.
CONVERTING FROM FACE-TO-FACE
Typical reasons to convert from face-to-face to mobile include:
∙
Faster: face-to-face can be very slow.
∙
Cheaper: face-to-face is often an expensive option.
∙
Better: this can mean quality control, but in the case of mobile it often means:
‘in the moment’, including passive data, using multimedia, and reaching a wider
range of people in a wider range of situations.
Mode effects converting from face-to-face
The most likely mode effect when converting a study from face-to-face to mobile is
the shift from interviewer administered surveys to self-administered surveys. Interview-
ers do more than just ask questions. They explain the survey, motivate the participant,
spot confusion, and report problems back to the researcher or research agency. How-
ever, the interviewer can also make it more likely that respondents will offer socially
acceptable responses, i.e. give answers that present themselves in a positive light. The
research-on-research has shown this to be a genuine concern.
A second major mode effect can arise because questions often appear differently in
a face-to-face survey than in a mobile survey. In a paper-based, face-to-face survey, a
show card may contain a large number of items, for example several photos. On a
mobile device the participant tends to look at items one at a time, which sometimes
results in changes in the data. For example, in prompted recall, showing items one at a
time or in small groupings tends to elicit higher levels of recall than showing long lists
(Witt 2000).
Another potential mode effect is the environment where the survey is conducted. In a
face-to-face survey the participant is not doing anything else, they are typically at home
or at a central location. A participant taking part in a mobile survey might be in a retail
outlet, at work, on a bus, in bed, watching TV, and so on. One of the perceived benefits
of mobile studies is that they can catch people ‘in the moment’, for example when
buying or using a product. However, a benefit is also a difference, and this difference is
a potentially an important mode effect. Although this issue remains a concern, there is
no research-on-research that suggests it is a major issue.

136DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Sample effects converting from face-to-face
Sample effects refer to different sorts of people being researched. One of the perceived
advantages of mobile market research is that it can reach people that more traditional
market research modes do not reach. With face-to-face surveys, the interviews can
only take place when the interviewer and participant can be brought together in the
same place. This tends to be between 9am and 8pm, in participants’ homes or in central
locations, in relatively densely populated areas.
Mobile studies are not limited to just those people who are in certain locations or to
those free at specific times of day. However, mobile studies are only going to reach
people who have the right type of device and who are willing to take part in a survey
via their mobile device.
The type of people who can be reached by a mobile survey will depend on the country,
the target group, and the type of mobile study being run. If the study is online and only
available to smartphone owners the sample will be different from one where web-
enabled feature phones are included, which in turn will be different from one based on
SMS, where any type of phone can be used.
CONVERTING FROM CATI
Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing (CATI) combines interviewers and a cen-
tralized computer system for the questionnaire. Amongst the common reasons for mov-
ing from CATI to mobile surveys are: to reduce costs and to access the specific benefits
of mobile, such as ‘in the moment’ and passive data.
Mode effects
As is the case when converting from face-to-face interviews to mobile self-completion,
the main mode effect is the removal of the interviewer. This reduces interviewer-related
bias, but it also removes the ability of the interviewer to help and motivate participants
and to help identify problems with the survey.
In addition, participants may also interpret questions differently when they see them
displayed on a screen as compared to hearing them read over the telephone.
Sample effects
In many markets CATI can reach a much wider range of the population than can be
reached with a mobile survey, particularly a mobile survey relying on the internet. This is
partly to do with the incidence of internet-enabled phones, but it also reflects differences
in sampling. Mobile online surveys will often use panels, lists, and communities as their

CONVERTING STUDIES TO MOBILE137
sample source, all of which are a subset of the population. CATI can use RDD that gives
it a much wider sample source.
In these situations, a shift from CATI to mobile surveys can create differences in the
composition of the sample which can create differences in the results.
CONVERTING FROM ONLINE SURVEYS DESIGNED FOR PCS
From a global perspective, clients spend more money on online surveys than any other
data collection mode. However, in terms of the number of interviews, and in many
countries, either CATI or face-to-face is the dominant method, with online domi-
nating in the more developed of markets, such as Japan, the USA, Germany, and
Australia.
The key reasons for converting an online survey to a mobile survey are:
1.To create device agnostic research that can be completed on both mobiles and
PCs.
2.To widen the range of people who can be reached, especially in countries where
online internet access via PCs is substantially less than via mobile devices.
3.To take advantage of the benefits of specifically mobile research, including ‘in the
moment’ research, capturing multimedia, and utilizing passive data.
Mode effects
As noted earlier, a key consideration when moving from online surveys designed for
PCs to mobile devices is the reduction in the size of the screen (sometimes referred to
as ‘screen real estate’), especially when the mobile device is a phone. When dealing with
feature phones, the difference in how questions appear on a PC and a mobile device is
larger.
Another potential mode effect may arise because of the change in context/location in
where surveys are taken. For example, taking part in a survey in a coffee bar or on a
crowded train might produce differences compared with sitting at a PC (which usually
means at home or in the office).
The Research-on-Research chapter includes a number of projects that have specifically
looked for mode effects when comparing online and mobile. In general, differences
appear to be few, but some important effects have been shown. For example, multi-
select grids appear to produce higher scores on mobile than on PC. More information
is available in that chapter.

138DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Sample effects
Most online surveys are conducted with people recruited from lists, for example, online
access panels, client lists, or online communities. This tends to be the same for most
mobile surveys, although at present most of the lists for mobile research are not as large
or as well organized.
However, there are still likely to be sample effects when moving from online via PC to
mobile. One of the reasons for using mobile surveys is to reach people on the move
and to reach people who have been ‘turned off’ conventional research approaches –
both of which imply sample differences.
In markets where more people are accessing the internet from mobile devices than
from PCs, and more generally as mobile sample suppliers develop their business, it is
likely the sample differences between PC online and mobile will grow, with mobile often
being potentially more representative.
MIXED-MODE SURVEYS
Mixed-mode, or hybrid, surveys are surveys where the researcher intends for some
participants to answer the survey using one mode, such as in a face-to-face interview,
and for others to use another mode, such as a smartphone. Mixed-mode can mean
as few as two modes, but it can also refer to studies utilizing many modes. The term
‘mixed-mode’ can also be used for studies where participants use one mode during one
stage of the survey and another mode at another stage, for example a CATI interview
could be followed by a mobile survey.
Mixed-mode is the subject of a whole chapter later in the book, so this section will
focus on the core items that relate to designing and managing mobile surveys.
OPTIMIZING THE PLATFORMS OR MINIMIZING
THE DIFFERENCES
One key choice that needs to be made when designing for mixed-mode is whether to
optimize the survey for each mode or to minimize the differences across all modes. A
similar decision was covered earlier in the chapter when looking at transitioning ques-
tionnaires from one mode to another. There is no right or wrong answer to the choice
of optimizing for mobile or minimizing differences. The researcher must choose the best
solution for the specific research being conducted, aware that both approaches have
potential shortcomings.
Optimizing for specific platforms
If a mixed-mode study is to be optimized for specific platforms, the tablet version might
utilize a larger screen. For example, the respondent might be shown a list of all the

MIXED-MODE SURVEYS139
brands on one screen, perhaps with logos as well as names shown. The smartphone
version might simplify the look, and show the brands (with or without logos) in groups
of say five, over several screens. The feature phone version might show the brands one
at a time, without a logo.
In this simple example, the use of logos and text on the tablet might increase the number
of brands recalled, but showing them in a larger group might reduce the number recalled.
The feature phone’s lack of logos might reduce recall, but asking the brands one at a
time might increase the recall.
In an extreme case of tailoring to the platform, some questions might be skipped alto-
gether for some modes. For example, an online study designed to be conducted via a
PC might take 30 minutes and include interactive graphics. The mobile version might
comprise only the most critical questions, avoid interactive graphics, and take only eight
minutes to complete.
When surveys are optimized for different devices, the researcher should analyse the data
carefully to determine if there are differences that appear to be caused by mode effects
(the impact of the way the questions are asked) or sample effects (different modes
can attract different people). If there are differences, the researcher should attempt to
remove them or report the data separately.
Minimizing the differences
If the researcher decides to minimize the differences between the modes then the first
step is to find out which mode is the most limited. This approach is sometimes referred
to as ‘the lowest common denominator’. If smartphones are going to be used, then this
will require the online survey to be simplified to ensure it looks and behaves in the same
way across platforms. If feature phones are going to be used, then a PC survey will have
to be considerably restrained, to make the experience broadly comparable.
The downside of minimizing the differences is that the simplified online survey may
remove features that might produce better data. For example, in a choice task using
four or more ‘cards’ on the screen may give the best results, but such a design is not
possible if the research is designed for a smartphone. Choice tasks based on two options
per task may work on all the devices, but it may produce data that is less accurate than
the four choice option.
‘UNINTENTIONAL’ MOBILE RESEARCH
As reported elsewhere in this book, a growing number of participants in online sur-
veys are choosing to complete surveys on mobile devices, which, in effect, turns many
(perhaps most) online surveys into mixed-mode surveys.
Researchers conducting online surveys should either accommodate the mobile partici-
pant or seek to exclude them. The trend in most research is towards platform agnostic

140DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
research, leaving the choice to the participants. However, for some mobile projects
there are good reasons to exclude PCs, for example when using location-based ‘in the
moment’ type approaches.
GOOD PRACTICES WITH RESTRICTING ACCESS
TO AN ONLINE SURVEY
If the researcher determines that some devices are not suitable for a particular survey
then the following advice should be followed:
1.Tell the participant at the invitation stage (and repeat at the start of the survey)
the limitations in terms of what devices can be used. For example, whether it
is smartphone only, or PC and tablet only, or suitable for any device capable of
connecting to and browsing the internet.
2.Use software that detects the device being used for the survey and that checks
it meets the minimum criteria for the study.
3.Do not describe the participant’s device as unsuitable for the survey; describe
the survey as unsuitable for their device.
4.Consider sending the invitations via SMS instead of email if the survey is intended
for phones.
SURVEYS AND APPS
There are a variety of reasons to use an app for surveys, instead of an online/browser-
based mobile study, including:
∙
Being able to trigger the survey in more ways, including geofencing, timed
alerts, and signals from the researcher.
∙
Being able to access and utilize passive data.
∙
Not having to rely on the internet being available.
The case for and against apps is considered more fully in the chapter entitled The
Technology of Mobile Market Research, along with more material on working with apps.
Designing for Mobile
The agency, MMR, needed to research out of home breakfast habits in the UK,
and wanted to conduct it in the moment, which meant mobile. Key items in their
implementation were:

SURVEYS AND APPS141
∙
An online survey was used to profile the participants on key behavioural
and attitudinal measures.
∙
An app was used for the ‘in the moment’ research, to ensure that the
data collection would be always on and respond quickly.
∙
The participants kept a breakfast diary for seven days, using the app at
meal time.
∙
By providing extensive support for participants, 53% of those eligible
downloaded the app and 83% of these completed all seven tasks.
∙
Initiatives included phased incentives (making it worthwhile to do
all seven tasks) and push notifications each morning to remind
participants.
The survey was kept very short, asking key details only, such as where they were,
who they were with, and what they ate.
MMR utilized the benefits of mobile by asking participants to take a photo of
their meal, ensuring they knew exactly what people had chosen and not what
they claimed, and also the ability it gives for people to complete the survey in the
moment, maximizing data quality and providing the ability for people to accurately
convey how they actually felt at that specific point in time.
Working with their supplier, MobileMeasure, the data entry was modified to make
it intuitive and fast for mobile users, for example using simple taps instead of
the drag and drop used in their online version. The bullseye data entry shown
in Figure 8.4, based on using phones in landscape mode, simply requires the
participant to tap once on the screen, at which point the next statement is
displayed.
Figure 8.4Bullseye data entry (note actual screen is in colour)

142DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
MMR’s CEO Mat Lintern is clear that when creating a mobile solution the benefits
of the new mode should be maximized and makes the following recommendation:
‘When mobilising an existing system redesign it from a mobile user’s perspective
and then that becomes the new standard.’
A longer version of this material is available online, on the book’s companion website, at http://www
.handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com
Surveys conducted via apps tend to be organized in one of two ways:
1.Each survey uses a separate app.
2.Using a survey app that participants (often members of panels or communities)
have already downloaded.
The second option, when available, is the easier and usually cheaper option. The first
option typically requires more effort in recruitment and support, but if the research has
special requirements, or in situations where no preloaded app is available, it may be the
only option.
Most of the issues discussed in the earlier parts of this chapter, for example fitting the
study to the screen and operating system, and the tension between optimizing and
compatibility, are issues that need addressing for surveys delivered via apps. However,
with apps there are often more choices, which means there are more things that need
to be decided.
Researchers should consider the following points when deciding which survey app to
use:
1.Should the survey be available when the internet is not available?
2.Should the survey run when initiated by the participant, or should it be triggered
in other ways (e.g. signals from researcher, timer, or location)?
3.What, if any, passive data should be collected?
4.How is the data going to be transmitted back to the researcher?
TIP:Replicating designs from online directly to mobile can affect survey completion
times and user experience adversely. Redesigning existing question types to suit mobile
reduces survey completion times and improves user experience.

SURVEYS AND FEATURE PHONES143
USING THIRD-PARTY APPS
Working with apps can be more complex than working with online browser-based
surveys. Creating a survey via an app tends to mean being closer to the workings of
devices and operating systems. Because of the potential complexity, some agencies
prefer to work with mobile market research app specialists when conducting this sort
of research, especially if they are producing customized or one off solutions.
Access panels that have their own app already installed on their members’ mobile
devices are another way of outsourcing some of the technical issues associated with
using an app.
WHICH IS BEST, APP OR BROWSER?
There is no general right answer to this question. In many cases, if the research is possible
with a browser-based approach, then that will be the cheapest, quickest, and most
efficient way of conducting the study. However, that may change as more panels and
communities build up collections of members who have already downloaded a survey
app, who are already incentivized to use it, and are familiar with using it.
The most common reason to use an app at the moment is when it provides a better
solution than a browser-based solution, or where there isn’t a browser-based solution.
Most mCAPI projects where interviewers use mobile devices to collect face-to-face
interviews use apps. Most projects using location information, such as GPS or Bluetooth
beacons, use apps. Most diary or ethnographic type projects where participants have
to enter data repeatedly, irrespective of whether the internet is available, use apps.
SURVEYS AND FEATURE PHONES
Adding feature phones to the range of mobile devices a survey supports increases the
complexity and the probability that the survey will look broadly similar across all devices
is reduced. There are three ways of conducting surveys via feature phones:
1.Surveys with web-enabled feature phones, using the internet.
2.Surveys via programs downloaded onto feature phones.
3.Survey using most types of phones, not just the web-enabled ones.
Downloading programs onto feature phones is a specialist area and beyond the scope
of an introductory book like this. Researchers looking to undertake this sort of research
should approach a specialist agency, one with both technical and market research
experience.

144DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
Surveys with feature phones that are not connected to the web are again a specialist
field, utilizing SMS, sometimes USSD, and possibly IVR (interactive voice response). This
approach is also beyond the scope of this book, but some of the issues are discussed
in the chapter on International Mobile Research. Many of the projects that use fea-
ture phone friendly approaches for their data collection also use innovative methods of
incentivizing participants, such as paying them with airtime, automatically. Researchers
wanting to utilize these approaches should seek experienced agencies to partner with.
In the less developed markets, online mobile surveys are often completed by participants
using web-enabled feature phones (rather than smartphones), and this is expected to
be the case for several more years. There are a number of companies who specialize
in this sector and many of the survey platforms are capable of rendering some or all of
their question types on web-enabled feature phones.
Researchers planning to use web-enabled feature phones to allow them to conduct
mobile research in an international study should keep two key factors in mind:
1.If some participants are completing the study on smartphones and some on a
feature phones, the questionnaire can look quite different, which may introduce
bias.
2.Different countries have different rules and expectations about things like incen-
tives, so working with partners who know each market is vital, where knowing
a market includes understanding the technology and the research environment.
OTHER WAYS TO LAUNCH/INITIATE SURVEYS
Most of this chapter has focused on surveys running in conjunction with access panels,
client lists, and insight communities; and in the context of a standard survey platform.
However, there are a variety of other ways of sourcing sample and of initiating surveys,
and these other routes require additional steps during the design and management of
the survey.
Additional ways of launching/initiating surveys include:
1.By publicizing the survey URL or QR code. This can be via a wide range of
routes, such as: advertising, on products, on shopping or till receipts, in mailings,
websites, and social media.
2.Through popups on mobile sites, or simply invitations from mobile sites.
3.As part of online river sampling such as RIWI.
4.Via SMS invitations, in cases where mobile telephone numbers are known.

CUSTOM-BUILT SOLUTIONS145
5.From embedded apps, either embedded on the phone, or as part of another
app (e.g. as part of a game).
6.As part of a geofencing marketing campaign, where shoppers have downloaded
an app to help them shop or to collect coupons, for example ShopKick.
7.Via conventional market research recruitment channels, such as telephone, face-
to-face, postal, and so on.
SURVEY DESIGN
When participants are not recruited from mainstream research channels, i.e. they are
not from a panel or a research community, they are usually less familiar with the look and
style of online surveys. This means the survey design should be welcoming, engaging, and
intuitive. Most researchers believe that participants recruited from these non-standard
routes are even more sensitive than regular participants to survey length, making the
case for shorter surveys even stronger.
CUSTOM-BUILT SOLUTIONS
Most breakthroughs in mobile market research have come from custom-built solutions.
The term ‘custom-built’ covers a wide range of situations. At one extreme it means
adding some custom code to an existing product or platform, at the other end it means
creating a solution from scratch. In general, custom-built solutions cost more, take longer,
and may be ‘riskier’ (riskier than a platform solution that may have been used tens of
thousands of times before your project uses it).
The benefits of custom-built solutions are that they can access more of the features
of the mobile device and they do not constrain the research to fit what the platforms
offer.
With custom-built solutions, many of the design principles discussed in this chapter still
apply, keeping the survey short and intuitive, making a decision on the balance between
mobile optimization and comparability with other modes, and thinking about the sorts
of mobile devices that the participants are likely to use.
When working with designers and software engineers it is a good idea to agree three
key conditions:
1.The research tool should comply with market research guidelines. For exam-
ple, any data collected must be in the context of informed consent. Software
engineers not familiar with the research industry may find it natural to collect
background information, perhaps to enable them to optimize their design.

146DESIGNING AND CONDUCTING MOBILE SURVEYS
2.Check that the survey includes market research essentials. These essentials
include: adding an ‘other’ or ‘none of these’ to response lists, the ability to ran-
domize answer lists, and the ability to branch depending on the answers to
earlier questions. Your app designer may not know about market research, so
they may not factor these features in.
3.Ensure that the data that is produced is in a standard market research format or
can easily be exported in a standard format, for example something that can be
read into a spreadsheet or statistical software package.
SUMMARY
Mobile market research is still a developing and evolving field, which means that there
are few settled and agreed guidelines about how mobile surveys should be designed
and managed. Whilst many organizations talk about ‘best practices’, these are typically
a set of rules of thumb that appear to work at the moment – but they should not be
taken as definitive guides. Indeed, even the notes in this chapter reflect a moment in
time, and should be treated more as a set of suggestions and issues to consider, rather
than as a prescription for how mobile surveys must be done.
The general themes that do appear to be broadly agreed, in the area of mobile surveys,
when giving advice to people new to the area are:
∙
Be clear about why mobile surveys are being used. Is it for speed, cost, being
‘in the moment’, to capture passive data, to reach a wider audience?
∙
Is the study going to be mobile only, or part of a platform agnostic, mixed-mode
solution?
∙
Is the research going to be browser-based or app-based?
∙
Mobile surveys should be intuitive, engaging, and short.
∙
A conscious decision should be made about the balance between mobile opti-
mization and maximizing comparability – comparability with other modes and
comparability with historical benchmarks.
∙
Changing mode to mobile surveys is likely to make some difference to the
results; this should be flagged as a possibility at the proposal stage and looked
for at the analysis stage.
∙
Working with a standard survey platform is likely to be quicker, easier, and
more reliable than a custom-built solution. Working with custom-built solutions
allows more access to the functions of a mobile phone and avoids the need to
fit the research to the constraints of the software solution.

PART III
The Methods and Applications
of Mobile Market Research
This part of the book looks at the different methods that are used to imple-
ment mobile market research projects and finishes with a review of interna-
tional mobile market research.
Part III covers:
9.mCAPI – Mobile Computer Assisted Personal Interviewing
10.mCATI – Mobile Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing
11.Mixed-Mode Research
12.Utilizing Passive Data
13.Panels, Lists, and Communities
14.International Mobile Research



9
mCAPI – Mobile
Computer Assisted
Personal Interviewing
INTRODUCTION
Mobile CAPI is a form of face-to-face interviewing where the interviewer uses a mobile
device as part of the interviewing process, and is a form of CAPI. CAPI stands for
‘Computer Assisted Personal Interviewing’, a term that arose in the 1980s, along with
growth in the use of PCs for market research. Mobile CAPI, or just mCAPI, refers to
the extension of this method to mobile devices.
Although PC-based CAPIs share of data collection spend is in decline (especially in the
developed research markets), mobile CAPI, or mCAPI, has been growing, as a niche
in the more developed markets and as a replacement for paper questionnaires in the
less developed markets. Research that is defined as mCAPI is typically conducted using
smartphones, tablets, or a combination of the two. However, feature phones are also
used for mCAPI, and some researchers describe laptop or netbook research as mCAPI,
especially if they want to stress the mobile element.
The definition of mCAPI adopted in this book covers interviews where a survey is
conducted on mobile devices that are not already owned by the respondent. mCAPI
can be conducted with the interviewer holding the device, the participant holding the
device, or a combination of the two.
THE BENEFITS OF mCAPI
The core strengths of mCAPI are:
∙
Not depending on respondents having suitable devices of their own.
∙
Being more secure than transferring material to participants’ devices.
∙
Being consistent, in terms of what each participant sees and hears.
Compared with online, PC-based CAPI, and CATI modes, mCAPI has (like other
forms of mobile research) the advantage of being more ‘in the moment’. For example,
interviewers can interview participants in retail outlets, at events, in planes, on trains,
and so on.

150mCAPI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED PERSONAL INTERVIEWING
In less developed markets, the key driver of the growth of mCAPI is the desire to
replace paper questionnaires in face-to-face interviews. The desire to move from paper
questionnaires is driven by the same reasons that CAPI made inroads in the 1980s and
1990s, in particular:
∙
Eliminating paper, printing, transportation, and data punching.
∙
Improving data quality, data validation, and the removal of data punching
errors.
∙
Improving turnaround times, project management, and quality control proce-
dures.
HISTORICAL NOTE
CAPI was a major mode of data collection in the 1980s and 1990s, and was associ-
ated with several advances in data collection, for example Adaptive Conjoint Analysis
(developed by Sawtooth Software). PC-based CAPI was sometimes administered by
the interviewer, but it was often conducted so that the respondent entered their own
responses into the computer.
From about 2000, CAPI was in decline as a data collection mode in developed markets,
because of the growth of online data collection, but saw growth in developing markets.
Currently, the term ‘mCAPI’ refers to the use of phones and tablets. However, the
term has been around for a number of years. In 2003 Quirks had a two-part series
looking at mCAPI, based on handheld computers. In the article, the author claimed
that the term ‘mCAPI’ dated back to the 1980s, but stated that mCAPI was held back
by the lack of success of handheld computers, until the launch of the Palm Pilot in 1996
(Weisberg 2003).
CASE STUDIES
In this part of the chapter, two case studies are used to highlight the sorts of research
needs and opportunities that market researchers are tackling with mCAPI. The first case
study looks at the UK, one of the more developed markets. The second looks at using
mCAPI in India, one of the economically and technically less developed markets.
Using Mobile Research to Implement One of the UK’s Largest Voices of
the Customer Programmes
Tesco is the UK’s largest retailer and one of the largest in the world. Its history is
in grocery retailing but in recent years it has expanded into general retailing, and

CASE STUDIES151
internationally. In 2012, Tesco announced it was going to invest£1 billion (about
US $1.5 billion) in improving its UK shopper experience. To support this expen-
diture, Tesco needed a customer experience programme to monitor customer
satisfaction, at store level, in ways that facilitated action.
Previously Tesco had used a mystery shopping programme, but it was felt the
focus should not be on specific standards, but that it should be on customers.
And the best way to get customer feedback about the shopping experience was
face-to-face, at the stores themselves.
The scale of the project that UK agency Marketing Sciences was commissioned
to deliver was enormous:
∙
100 interviews per store at over 950 Tesco stores, over a two-week
period each month including a number in rural and hard to reach loca-
tions.
∙
The store level reports were needed two weeks after fieldwork, available
to store managers.
The solution was to use tablets loaded with research apps from Confirmit, meeting
the following criteria:
∙
Battery life that lasted a full interviewer shift.
∙
Light enough for an interviewer to hold for about six hours.
∙
Cost effective.
∙
The screen needed to be as big and bright as possible (consistent with
being as lightweight as needed and with a good battery life).
∙
Not too attractive to potential thieves!
∙
Able to run offline (when no internet available).
∙
Capable of handling questionnaire updates and live messaging.
To get the project up and running, over 300 interviewers were trained, across
different locations around the country. Once the system was live, 1900 shifts
needed to be logged each month. If the weather was bad, or interviewers were
ill, alternatives needed to be put in place immediately.
The quality control procedures included the following:
∙
Were the interviews done on the right day, at the right time, and across
the full shift?

152mCAPI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED PERSONAL INTERVIEWING
∙
Did interviewers take any strange or long breaks during a shift?
∙
How did the patterns of interviews compare with those of other inter-
viewers?
∙
GPS could be switched on to show where interviews were conducted, but
battery drain was a concern in these cases.
The dashboards and reports provide information that is local, regional, and
national, and provide a common language between store managers and those
further up the chain of command.
By November 2013 the project had collected over 1.5 million interviews and
saved 581 trees, by not using 24 tons of paper. For the client it meant getting
very close to customers, at every store, with a rapid delivery of meaningful results.
For Marketing Sciences it meant delivering one of the UK’s largest voices of the
customer programmes.
Thanks are extended to Tesco and Marketing Sciences for providing this case study.
mCAPI in India – Improving the Efficiency of Data Collection
This case study looks at how Indian market research agency Market Xcel are using
German mCAPI supplier cluetec GmbH’s mCAPI product, mQuest, to convert
research from paper-based face-to-face surveys to mCAPI. In 2013 Market Xcel
estimated that 90% of interviews in India (a country of over 1 billion people) were
being conducted via paper-based surveys.
Market Xcel’s initial move was to buy 450 internet-enabled tablets, and to equip
them with cluetec’s mQuest. The benefits of mCAPI included the following:
∙
It provided a focal point for their training programme.
∙
It removed the need to post questionnaires to interviewers at regional
centres.
∙
The problem of gathering and punching the completed surveys was elim-
inated.
∙
GPS and time/date stamps to track and validate the interviewing process.
∙
Real-time reporting via a web interface – something not possible with
paper questionnaires.
∙
Photographs were uploaded, not only as part of the research, but also
as a part of the quality control process.

mCAPI CONSIDERATIONS153
∙
Centralized translation of questionnaires (Market Xcel are using 22 lan-
guages within India).
∙
The use of more sophisticated surveys, for example, routing, piping, and
adaptive processes.
The net effect has been faster turnarounds and better quality control processes.
The processes outlined here deliver to face-to-face research in India benefits that
technology has brought to more developed markets.
Thanks are extended to both cluetec GmbH and Market Xcel Data Matrix Pvt. Ltd. for sharing
this case study. A fuller version of the case study is available from the book’s companion website:
http://www.handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com.
mCAPI CONSIDERATIONS
If a research project is going to use mCAPI then there are a number of considerations to
review, in order to be able to select the right solution. In this context, the considerations
include issues such as: smartphones or tablets, whether to use apps, what software to
use, and the specific devices to choose.
This section reviews the key considerations and provides help and advice. Although
this section lays out the considerations in a linear pattern, the considerations are all
integrated, the choice of device will influence the software, and the choice of software
will influence the choice of device.
HOW WILL THE INTERVIEWS CONNECT TO THE INTERNET?
There are three basic models of how mobile CAPI operates, in terms of connection to
the internet and to the researcher’s data files:
1.The device is connected throughout the interview to the internet, usually via the
telephone network, Wi-Fi, or some combination of the two.
2.The device is connected periodically to the internet, to upload completed inter-
views and download project information and updates to questionnaires or quo-
tas.
3.The device is not connected to the internet during the project. The collected
data is stored on the mobile device and transferred periodically, for example to
aPCviaacable.
The issues connected with each of these three choices are outlined next.

154mCAPI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED PERSONAL INTERVIEWING
Connected to the internet, throughout the interview
If the device is connected to the internet throughout the interviewing process (with suf-
ficient reliability and bandwidth), then the researcher has the option to use web-based
software, as opposed to app-based software. Being connected to the internet through-
out the process makes it easier to control quotas and to update the survey and/or
instructions. However, assuming that the internet will remain available and reliable can
be a problem in many cases, and it can run down the device’s battery more quickly than
running in standalone mode.
If the research plans to utilize Wi-Fi, the researcher needs to ensure that this will be
possible. Wi-Fi connections are not always reliable, even in developed economies. For
example, many conference organizers have found that the Wi-Fi connectivity they have
purchased lets them down when all the delegates try to access it at the same time. If the
connection to the internet is via the mobile telephone network then the researcher’s
choice of device will be narrower, and the costs may be higher for both the device and
the data transfer. Note that the cheapest devices are often tablets that do not have a
SIM, and which connect to the internet via Wi-Fi.
Connecting to the internet periodically
If the connection to the internet is periodic, then the survey software will need to reside
on the mobile device, and the device will normally need to be able to store more than
one interview. The survey data will be transferred when there is an internet connection,
and updates can be downloaded at the same time. The researcher should keep in mind
that until the data has been transferred it is at risk from loss, theft, and/or corruption. In
some cases the devices are only connected to the internet twice, once at the start and
once at the end of the project. However, this maximizes the risks of losing data and
minimizes the opportunities for centralized oversight.
Not connecting the mobile devices to the internet
If the device is not going to be connected to the internet, then it is even more important
to get everything right first time, and to think about how issues like quota control are
going to be achieved. As with periodic connection to the internet, the researcher should
take into account the risk of losing data through the loss, theft, and/or corruption of
devices.
WHETHER TO USE AN APP?
A large proportion of mCAPI is app-based because of concerns about whether an
internet connection is going to be reliably available. The benefits of using an app are
that the internet is not required to be available all the time, the system can access more

mCAPI CONSIDERATIONS155
features of the mobile device, battery life can be better, and the system can be more
responsive (e.g. no delays whilst questions and media are downloaded).
The main negatives associated with an app are the need to install it on the devices (but
this is less of an issue with interviewers than with consumers), the loss of control (e.g.
ability to change the questionnaire and quotas), and the reduced security of not having
the data transferred to the researcher in real time.
SMARTPHONE OR TABLET?
Although it is possible to use feature phones for mCAPI, it is increasingly unnecessary to
do this, due to the falling cost of Android-based phones. The question facing researchers
tends to be ‘tablet or smartphone?’
The question of smartphone or tablet is being made even more complex by the arrival
of ‘phablets’ (larger than a traditional smartphone, smaller than a traditional tablet). Key
questions that researchers should consider are shown in Table 9.1.
Table 9.1  Key questions that researchers should consider
QuestionConsideration
Does it need to
be a phone?
Phones tend to cost more than tablets and can be more tempting to thieves. A
tablet can seem more ‘work like’ to both interviewers and participants.
Is a larger
screen needed?
If the research involves showing several items together, as in some discrete
choice modelling projects, or if advertisements or videos need to be shown,
then the larger screen of a tablet may be desirable or even essential.
If both interviewer and participant need to be able to read the screen, then a
tablet will often be the better option.
How portable
does the device
need to be?
A short interview on a table or at a desk is equally convenient on a tablet or
phone. But if the interviewer is using the device whilst moving, perhaps by
interviewing shoppers, a larger tablet can become a burden, favouring phones
or smaller tablets.
When the larger screen of the tablet is felt to be a necessity, some researchers
have utilized shoulder straps or similar devices to help carry the tablet in a
convenient way.
What functions
do you need?
Many phones have a range of services that are not present on most tablets,
including SMS. If the research would benefit from using these, then a suitable
phone or phablet would be the best option.
Will a specific
device increase
cooperation
rates more than
others?
Some researchers have found that the prestige or status of asking people to use,
for example, an iPad has helped increase the willingness of people to take part
in research projects.

156mCAPI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED PERSONAL INTERVIEWING
CHOICE OF SOFTWARE
There are a wide range of issues that will influence the choice of software, including the
ones shown in Table 9.2.
Table 9.2  Issues that influence software choice
TopicIssues to consider
Functionality:    A list of functions required should be created, including items such as:
scripting, testing, project management, and question types supported.
Languages:Does the software support the interview languages needed, including character
sets? In locations with multiple languages, can the survey readily switch
between languages?
Also, what languages does the software support for administration? Many
systems that can interview in a large number of languages may only support
English at the administration and project management level.
Cost:The key issue with cost is the total cost, either the total cost of a specific
project, or the likely cost over a period of time, for example a year.
The total cost is likely to be some combination of licence, cost per interview,
cost of support and training, and possibly the cost for transferring and
consolidating the results onto a central server.
Training and
support:
There are two key training and support issues to consider:
1. The training and support for the research team, i.e. learning how to use the
system. For example, how to script surveys, how to deploy them, and how
to gather the completed information.
2. The training and support needed for the interviewers using the system.
Security:Client and respondent data needs to be kept secure. With mobile devices, data
security can be under threat if devices are lost or stolen, or if data transmission
is compromised. Software solutions differ in the extent to which they protect
the data, for example through encryption.
Customizing:Can the software be customized to add extra features that might be required?
Scalability and
deployment
speed:
Software solutions differ in how quickly they can be deployed in new
situations, and they differ in their ability to be scaled up to larger projects, or
projects in multiple countries.
CHOOSING A SPECIFIC DEVICE
Whilst it is possible to run mCAPI projects with a variety of devices, most researchers
prefer to have all the interviewers using the same device, to make the project easier
to manage. This raises the question of which device to use. The section looks at key
questions related to the selection of suitable mobile devices.

mCAPI CONSIDERATIONS157
Will you have to buy the devices?
If the field partner already has mobile devices, then usually the best choice is to use those.
If the project will require devices to be bought or rented, then the cost, portability, risk
of loss or theft, and the ability to insure the devices will all have an impact on the
selection of the best option.
Choice of brand and model
The best option is to adopt a single device (form, brand, and model) for all of the
interviewers. A single device makes training, support, and project design easier. The first
elements in the choice process are the form (tablet, phablet, or phone), the software,
and the operating system.
The next considerations should be ease of use, ease of replacement (some will go
missing), lifespan (tablets and phones can be prone to damage), and battery life. The
cost of the devices is a major consideration, irrespective of who will be buying/owning
the devices.
Which operating system?
The operating system should normally be determined after deciding on research soft-
ware, not before. The only common situation where this is done the other way round
is when devices are already available, and the operating system on them is taken as a
given.
When thinking about operating systems the version can be as much of an issue as the
type of operating system. A software option might run on current versions of Windows
Phone, Apple iOS, and Google Android, but it might not run on older versions of the
operating system.
TIP:Even newly purchased mobile devices can have relatively old versions of Android
on them, which can create either compatibility problems or a lengthy updating process.
Researchers should check that the software will run on the installed operating system.
Battery and charging considerations
In choosing mobile devices and when designing a project, the researcher needs to con-
sider the likely battery life of the mobile devices being used and plan for how they are
to be recharged – something that is typically the responsibility of the field company.
If each interviewer has a single device, then they can probably be left to organize its
regular charging. If one person is looking after numerous devices, it might make sense

158mCAPI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED PERSONAL INTERVIEWING
to acquire a device that will charge several mobile devices at once – some of these
come in the form of a case or chest that will also provide some security against theft.
Providing extra batteries for mobile devices can help prevent running out of power
during fieldwork.
PROJECT CONSIDERATIONS
Successful face-to-face research projects require good coordination between the
researcher and the interviewers, typically through the medium of the fieldwork provider.
This is just as true of mCAPI as it is for more traditional forms of face-to-face research.
Additionally, with mCAPI there are some specifically mobile issues to consider.
Study design
Most of the design issues for mCAPI projects are the same as for other forms of mobile
quantitative research. For example, the questions need to fit on the screen, be intuitive,
and load quickly. If the study requires the participants to enter their own data, it needs
to be even more intuitive than a typical mobile study since the person entering the data
may never have used a tablet or a smartphone before.
In terms of study length, mCAPI behaves like other forms of face-to-face interviewing.
Intercept interviews, for example as people leave a retail outlet, are likely to need to be
short; scheduled in-home interviews can often be longer.
Since mCAPI is using an interviewer the researcher should seek to maximize the benefits
of the mode, for example asking the interviewer to provide feedback on the study and
on participants.
Training
Unless a research project is using a field company that has already been trained in the
specific mCAPI solution being used, it will be necessary to train the interviewers. In a
central location test, this can often be achieved via a central briefing and training session.
However, if a project is being administered nationally, or internationally, some form of
devolved or remote training will be necessary. One aid to distance training is the use of
video or webinars.
TIP:During training, remind interviewers that the device is likely to record when they
have conducted an interview, where they conducted the interview, and may collect
other data about the interview.

SUMMARY159
Logistical support
A mobile device can do much more than just capture participant data. Depending on
the type of device being used support can be provided in the following sorts of ways:
∙
Phone calls, providing help, instructions, and feedback
∙
Helping with navigation
∙
Updating questionnaires, discussion guides, or quotas
∙
Playing training videos
∙
Sending or receiving messages, for example via email, IM, or SMS.
SUMMARY
CAPI has been in relative decline for a decade or more, having been largely superseded
by online (just as face-to-face and CATI have been impacted by online). However, the
introduction of mobile devices into the world of CAPI has re-invigorated the method.
mCAPI is proving attractive in situations where face-to-face interviewing is preferred,
either because it is the best option (as in interviewing people as they leave retail outlets)
or because the alternative is paper-based questionnaires, as is the case in some of the
less economically and technologically advanced markets.
The future potential of mCAPI is underlined by the fact that many of the leading survey
platform providers have mCAPI options, typically app-based products, allowing a wide
range of organizations to utilize these developments.
The following are the key mCAPI considerations:
∙
In a mCAPI project the most critical element is the interviewer.
∙
mCAPI is more likely to be app-based than browser-based.
∙
Most of the leading market research software platforms have a mCAPI solu-
tion.
∙
As the market matures it will be increasingly rare for researchers to focus on
hardware choices; they will look for fieldwork suppliers who can work with their
existing platform choices.
∙
In challenging markets researchers will tend to look for fieldwork suppliers who
can provide a complete solution.
∙
When choosing a device for mCAPI, the five key issues to consider are: size,
browser or app, battery life, training and security, and choice of software.

10
mCATI – Mobile
Computer Assisted
Telephone
Interviewing
INTRODUCTION
As a data collection mode, CATI (computer assisted telephone interviewing) is currently
far larger than modes typically described as mobile. In 2012, ESOMAR estimated that
CATI accounted for about 17% of quantitative projects by spend (ESOMAR 2013).
Until recently, in the more developed economies, CATI was perceived as relating only
to landlines, but increasingly CATI has started to include mobile phones (hence mCATI).
One of the key drivers of this growth in interest in CATI and mobile devices has been
the rise of mobile only households in the developed markets. For example, by January
2013, the US CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) National Health
Interview Survey was quoting that 37% of US adults lived in a home without a landline
(up from about 4% a decade earlier).
In the less economically developed markets, mobile phones have been a core part of
CATI for much longer.
In 2013 the ITU (the UN agency focused on information and communication technolo-
gies) estimated that in the developed world there were about three times as many
mobile phones as landlines (which they refer to as fixed lines), as shown in Figure 10.1.
The gap was even wider in the developing world where the ITU estimated that there
are more than seven times as many mobile subscriptions as landlines.
The chapter starts by reviewing CATI in general and looking at why the introduction
of mobile phones has made a difference. The chapter then looks at CATI and mobile
devices from two perspectives. Firstly, the modifications that are required to existing
CATI practice to deal with issues created by mobile phones. Secondly, to draw some
wider implications about interviewing people via mobile devices, as opposed to other
modes.

UNDERSTANDING CATI161
0.5
0.7
1.6
5.2
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
DevelopedDeveloping
Billions of Subscribers
Landline & Mobile Phones
ITU 2013 Estimate
LandlineMobile
Figure 10.1Landline and mobile subscriptions
UNDERSTANDING CATI
Before exploring the role of mobile in the context of CATI, it is useful to review CATI (as
applied to landlines) and its perceived strengths and characteristics. This section covers
how CATI is used with RDD for random probability sampling and why landline only
research has, in the past, been preferred to telephone interviews with mobile phones.
RANDOM SAMPLING AND RDD
CATI has been used by researchers as one of the two leading ways of delivering a rea-
sonable approximation of a random probability sample (along with door-to-door inter-
viewing) – in countries where most people have a telephone. These random probability
samples are delivered via a method known as RDD, where RDD stands for random
digit dialling. RDD refers to a method of creating random probability samples from the
characteristics of telephone numbers, by generating random numbers in patterns that
match the use of telephone numbers (rather than by looking them up from directories).
Whilst RDD has been a mainstay of market research sampling, in many of the developed
markets for many years, it does have some important limitations in terms of being a true
random probability sample:
∙
Not everybody has a landline. The penetration of phones varies from country
to country, and within a country by issues such as income and age. In the less
developed markets landlines never reached very high levels in most cases, and
in the developed markets there has been a rise in the number of mobile only
households.

162mCATI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED TELEPHONE INTERVIEWING
∙
Not everybody with access to a landline is equally likely to answer it. Busy
people are out more than others, and younger members of the household
may be less likely to use the family phone than others.
∙
Not everybody who is phoned agrees to take part in the research, which means
that the contacts may represent a random probability sample, but response
bias may impact the outcome.
UNDERSTANDING LANDLINES AND CATI
The history of CATI has been the history of using landlines to contact research partici-
pants. This section looks at the key issues relating to CATI via landlines, the next section
does the same for CATI via mobile phones.
The benefits of landlines
When mobile phones first appeared, many researchers preferred to confine their CATI
studies to landlines. The key reasons for preferring a traditional landline sample were:
1.Landline methodologies were better established, so there were efficiencies in
staying with this approach, and a degree of comfort. The methods included the
mathematic modelling of how to create a random sample and technical devices
for handling calls, for example predictively pre-dialling numbers, to enable the
efficient use of interviewers.
2.A belief that mobile phone interviews needed to be shorter than landline surveys.
(A point of view that echoes the discussion between online surveys via a PC and
mobile device.)
3.In many countries, landline numbers can be mapped to geographic locations,
making it easier to set regional quotas. By contrast, mobile phone numbers are
often mapped to things like telephone service providers.
4.The sound quality of mobile calls might be lower, because of poor connections,
distractions, and lost calls.
5.Mobile research can be more expensive than landlines. AAPOR (2010) reported
that in the US, the cost of a cell phone complete is often twice as expensive as
a landline complete, and can be three or four times as high. Pennay et al. (2013)
estimated that in Australia the cost of a nationally representative sample is 30%
higher if conducted from a mobile sampling frame, compared with using landlines.
6.Mobile research may require more phone calls to be made to achieve the same
number of completed interviews, due to factors such as call screening, refusals,
and higher dropout rates.

UNDERSTANDING CATI163
7.Restrictions on the technology that can be used for mobile studies. For exam-
ple, in the US auto-diallers (including predictive diallers) cannot be used to ring
mobile phones without the owner’s prior permission. If the interviewer has to
enter the number manually then it takes longer.
GENERATING A SAMPLE FRAME
When a researcher wants to generate a sample that approximates to a random proba-
bility sample, the first step is to create a suitable sample frame. A sample frame is typically
a list or definition of every member of a target population. In terms of telephone inter-
viewing the sample frame is normally approximated by estimating the phone numbers
in use.
Generating landline samples
There are variations in how landline samples are generated, but the basics are broadly
similar, as shown here:
1.Ascertain the range of numbers allocated for the target locations from the tele-
phone companies. In many cases, the numbers relate to geographic regions,
allowing the numbers generated to be related to census estimates of popula-
tion.
2.Generate random numbers from the valid ranges.
3.Test the numbers to establish that they are in use, usually via pinging them with
a test signal.
4.Create a collection of numbers from those that appear to be in use.
This collection of numbers is then used as a source for random selection. The random
selection of numbers is then based on how many numbers are required to achieve a
completed interview. For example, if 1000 completes are needed, and if it is assumed
that eight numbers will be required for each complete, on average, then 8000 numbers
will be selected.
In many cases the process of generating collections of suitable numbers and of drawing
random selections is taken care of by third-party sample providers. These companies
will typically create a collection every so often, for example yearly, and then draw from
the collection.
UNDERSTANDING CATI VIA MOBILE PHONES
The world of landlines and CATI has evolved over 40 years. By comparison the learnings
about mobile and CATI are much newer and less thoroughly researched and evaluated.

164mCATI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED TELEPHONE INTERVIEWING
Why add mobile phones to CATI?
Given that landline-based research was well established and likely to be cheaper than
including mobile phones, why have mobile phones appeared in CATI projects? The
main reason to add mobile only households to CATI projects was because of the rise
in mobile only households. As mobile only households became a larger and larger per-
centage, researchers felt they could not risk excluding them.
Mobile only people are different
There is now a substantial amount of evidence that there are important differences
between people who can be accessed via landlines and those who can only be accessed
via mobile phones. For example, Hu et al. (2011) reported that a cell phone only sample
differed from a landline sample and had higher proportions of males, people aged 18 to
34 years, people who had never married, and those with annual household incomes of
less than $35,000. Similarly, UK regulator Ofcom reported in 2013 that the proportion
of mobile only households was ‘significantly higher among younger and less affluent
households’ (Ofcom 2013). While in studies looking at Australians, Pennay et al. (2013)
reported that the mobile only sample are more likely to be: male, younger, to have
been born overseas, and to be living in rented accommodation.
These differences echo the findings of online research, where the demographics of
people choosing to answer online surveys via a mobile device are different from those
choosing to answer via a PC. The research implication in both cases is that adding a
mobile option excludes fewer people, and can help make the sample more represen-
tative of the target population.
Why not use mobile only samples?
In many markets, both developed and less developed, there are more people with
access to a mobile phone than have access to a landline. For example, according to the
CDC, in the US in 2013 about 90% of households had access to a mobile phone, but
only 60% had access to a landline (about 50% of US households had access to both)
(Blumberg and Luke 2012).
So, given that there are so many mobiles, why don’t researchers switch to using mobile
only samples? The main reasons are those set out earlier as the benefits of landlines,
in particular it is typically cheaper to use landlines than mobiles. There is also the issue
that it is easier to sample landlines and the methods of sampling are better established.
However, the trend is towards samples that are increasingly mobile and it should be
noted that in some of the newer economies samples tend to already be mobile only,
because landlines are very rare and mobiles relatively common.

UNDERSTANDING CATI165
Benefits of mobile only samples
One of the benefits of mobile sample frames is that the person answering the phone is
the relevant person. In a landline survey the interviewer’s first task is usually to determine
how many people live in the household and then go through a procedure to select the
correct person to interview.
Another benefit is that mobile phones are with people all the time, but landlines are
only available when people are at home (or at the office for B2B research). There can
be important differences in demographics, behaviour, or attitudes between people who
are often at home and those who are only occasionally at home.
Mobile response rates
The general consensus seems to be that response rates for mobile CATI are lower
than for landlines, which means the non-response rates are higher. For example, on
page 6 of the 2010 AAPOR Cell Phone Task Force Report (AAPOR 2010), it suggests
that ‘[n]onresponse in RDD cell phone surveys is somewhat greater than in comparable
RDD landline surveys in the US’. However, the AAPOR report suggests that rates may
become more similar over time, because of falling response rates for calls to landlines.
Similar evidence is provided by Pennay et al. (2013), who found that they needed
six landline telephone numbers (referred to as records) per complete, while for their
mobile data collection they required eight numbers per complete. The mobile study
required just over 28 calls per interview, whereas the landline study required just under
27 calls per interview.
Quality concerns about mobile surveys
Researchers have raised a number of concerns about the quality of CATI interviews
conducted via mobile phones. For example, AAPOR (2010) raised a number of possible
concerns about the quality of the data collected via mobile phone, including ‘audio
quality, asking about sensitive topics while a respondent is in a public place, and asking
about cognitively complex topics while a respondent is multitasking’.
However, there appears to be no evidence to date that survey data collected via mobile
phones is less good than data collected via landlines (AAPOR 2010, Pennay et al. 2013).
Nevertheless, the advice from the relevant bodies is that researchers should be vigilant
for potential differences caused by the data collection mode.
Generating a mobile phone sampling frame
Although there are variations from country to country (and to a lesser extent from
company to company) in how mobile sample frames are created, the broad approach
is similar to landlines. From the number ranges allocated to the mobile phone operators,

166mCATI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED TELEPHONE INTERVIEWING
randomly generated extensions are produced and the resultant numbers tested to see
that they are valid and in use.
One of the weaknesses of RDD with mobile phones is that in many cases the mobile
phone numbers used in a country are not related to geographic regions, making it harder
to map numbers to areas or regions.
COMBINING LANDLINES AND MOBILE PHONES,
FOR CATI
This section looks at the logistical implications of conducting CATI studies where some
participants will be interviewed via their landline and some via their mobile phone.
DUAL FRAME SAMPLES
If a researcher wants to include both landlines and mobile phones in an RDD study it is
necessary to use a dual frame approach to define the sample. A dual frame is needed
because there is no single method of selecting phone numbers that will deal adequately
with both landlines and mobile phones.
Overlapping and non-overlapping frames
There are two approaches to dual frame sampling, overlapping and non-overlapping
(AAPOR 2010):
∙
In the non-overlapping approach, the landline frame is used as the main frame,
and the mobile frame is used solely to add mobile only households. In the non-
overlapping frame model, anybody contacted from the mobile frame who lives
in a household with a landline is rejected.
∙
In an overlapping frame, mobile phone users who also have access to a landline
can be recruited from either the landline frame or the mobile frame. In this
case, the researcher needs to determine what proportion of the total sample
should come from the mobile frame and what proportion from the landline
frame.
Mobile users contacted via landline can be different from those contacted by mobile
One reason for using overlapping samples, i.e. samples where the mobile users are
sourced from both the landline frame and mobile frame, is that there is evidence that
mobile samples sourced from a landline frame show relevant and measurable differences
from a mobile sample sourced from a mobile frame (Pennay et al. 2013). What this
means is that mobile phone owners contacted via a landline are different, to an extent,

COMBINING LANDLINES AND MOBILE PHONES, FOR CATI167
from mobile phone owners contacted via their mobile phone, even when both groups
of people have both a mobile phone and a landline.
Weighting/blending landline and mobile phone samples
If data is collected from two sources, it needs to be combined or blended, which means
determining the proportions, or weights, that should be used. Amongst the problems
are:
∙
The complexity of the link between an individual and the mobile device they
have been contacted on. Some devices are shared by several people, such
as the household landline, whereas some individuals have access to sev-
eral devices, for example somebody might have two mobile phones and a
landline.
∙
The absence of good, regional data on the characteristics of people in: landline
only households, mobile only households, and dual use households.
∙
Taking differential non-response into account. For example, the data suggests
that non-response is higher amongst mobile phone users.
Researchers looking to blend landline RDD and mobile RDD are recommended to
check the recent literature and their industry bodies. A summary of approaches and
some links to further resources can be found in the AAPOR 2010 report.
Mobile CATI in non-RDD situations
RDD is a major part of telephone surveying, because it is felt by many researchers
to approximate to a random probability sample, but RDD is not the only form of
telephone/CATI research. Examples of other uses include telephone interviews with
participants sourced from:
∙
Customer lists
∙
Members of panels
∙
Members of research communities
∙
Inbound calls, for example when people phone a call centre.
In non-RDD cases, the researcher typically treats mobile phones and landlines as being
interchangeable. The only exceptions to this rule are where the research is related
to a specific type of phone service, for example about landlines, or about mobile
services.

168mCATI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED TELEPHONE INTERVIEWING
CATI WITH MOBILE PHONES
This section looks at the implications of using telephone interviewing with mobile
phones, both in the context of mobile only samples and combining mobile phones
and landlines.
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DIALLING MOBILE PHONES
In addition to all the normal conventions that apply to phoning landlines, such as not
causing a nuisance, not ringing at anti-social hours, and not contacting people who have
requested no contact,
1
there are special considerations that apply when seeking to ring
mobile phones (or where it is possible the number is a mobile phone).
2
Special considerations for ringing mobile phones can include:
1.If the country where the research is taking place has time zones, these will have
to be taken into account when avoiding anti-social hours.
2.Check with the person answering the phone that it is safe for them to speak.
For example, check they are not driving a car or operating machinery.
3.Wherever possible, check whether the participant would like to do the survey
now, or later. If they’d like to do it later, the best practice is to make a definite
appointment.
4.Offer to call back on a landline, particularly if the voice connection is poor, or to
call back at another time.
MOBILE CATI ETHICS
As with all market research ethics, there are broadly four categories to consider:
1.The laws and regulations that operate within the country or countries where
the research is taking place.
2.The rules and guidance from the market research organizations in the country
or countries where the research is being conducted.
1
In many markets ‘do not call’ lists do not restrict market research calls, but even in these cases many
market researchers choose to exclude these numbers.
2
In most markets, mobile phones can be identified by the leading digits, so even in a project where the
research is using mobile and landline phone numbers interchangeably, specific procedures can be put in
place for mobile phones. However, some authorities have raised concerns about phoning mobile devices
where the initial number is a landline that has been forwarded to a mobile device.

THE BROADER IMPLICATIONS FOR MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH169
3.International guidance, for example from ESOMAR and the Mobile Marketing
Research Association.
4.The researcher’s own moral compass, supported by a sense of what is likely to
offend the public.
One of the challenges for market researchers is that the laws, rules, regulations, and
guidelines can vary from country to country. For example, in some countries all of the
following are illegal:
1.Using auto-diallers to call mobile phones. When auto-diallers are illegal the inter-
viewers have to dial numbers manually.
2.Ringing people at anti-social times of day.
3.Ringing people who are on a ‘do not call’ list.
4.Ringing people and dropping the call if an interviewer is not ready.
Researchers should check the rules that pertain to telephone research via mobile phones
in target markets, ideally via a local research organization.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
The following points are likely to be good practice in most markets:
∙
Explain the purpose of the call and how you obtained the number.
∙
Tell them how long the call will take, and ask if that is OK.
∙
If you are going to be asking personal questions, ask them whether they are
likely to be overheard.
THE BROADER IMPLICATIONS FOR MOBILE
MARKET RESEARCH
The lessons being learned by researchers seeking to integrate mobile phones into the
well-developed field of landline-based CATI research have interesting implications for
other researchers. The key implications are:
∙
People who can be reached via mobile devices are sometimes different, in
important ways, from people who can be reached via more traditional means.
The implication of this finding is that by including mobile devices the research
represents more of the target population.

170mCATI – MOBILE COMPUTER ASSISTED TELEPHONE INTERVIEWING
∙
Although there are fears that interviewing people via mobile, rather than land-
line, might produce different responses (from the same respondent), there is
little evidence to support this concern – and the same is broadly true with
other mobile versus traditional route comparisons.
∙
Combining data drawn from two samples sources is complex and typically
requires modelling and/or weighting.
SUMMARY
The key points that the chapter has highlighted are:
∙
CATI based on landlines only is largely a thing of the past, the present is
a combination of landlines and mobile, and the future (in many markets) is
likely to be mobile only.
∙
The processes for combining landline RDD and mobile RDD are not settled or
fully agreed – researchers working in this area should consult the leading texts
and reports in the area.
∙
Mobile CATI often introduces more constraints than is the case for landlines.
For example, more restrictions on how calls can be managed/organized and
less information about the link between numbers and geographic areas.
∙
People who have mobile devices are demographically different from those who
do not, and those with a landline are demographically different from those who
do not. These differences mean that offering the widest range of options will
result in the widest range of research participants.
∙
At present, mobile CATI tends to cost more than landline-based CATI.
∙
The lessons from CATI, when comparing mobile with traditional modes, are
broadly similar to those obtained by comparing mobile surveys with online
surveys.

11
Mixed-Mode
Research
INTRODUCTION
This chapter looks at a variety of approaches that can be described as mixed-mode,
where mobile is one of the modes in the mix. This chapter includes projects that are
quantitative, qualitative, and those that utilize both active and passive research. The
chapter covers projects where mixed-mode means that different modes are used at
different stages of the project and those where different modes are used by different
participants at the same stage.
In the area of mobile research, the term ‘mixed-mode’ often refers to combining online
research with mobile research, typically offering a mobile participant the chance to con-
nect to online research projects from a mobile device, rather than from a PC. Offering
participants the choice of connecting via a PC or via a mobile device is often termed
‘platform agnostic’.
Other terms are sometimes used for mixed-mode, for example ‘multi-mode’ or ‘hybrid’
research. Some researchers draw a distinction between, say, mixed-mode and multi-
mode, but these differences are not consistent across the market research profession,
and this book will restrict itself to using the term ‘mixed-mode’.
The chapter starts by looking at how mobile only studies differ from mixed-mode stud-
ies, in the context of phones, smartphones, and tablets. The next section looks at studies
that are mixed-mode in the sense of using different modes at different stages. The final
section looks at designing and implementing a mixed-mode study.
‘MOBILE ONLY’ VERSUS MIXED-MODE
Although this is a book about mobile market research, many research projects are
mixed-mode, rather than mobile only (i.e. one that only uses mobile devices). Indeed,
one of the first decisions a researcher needs to make when conducting a mobile market
research project is to determine whether the project should be mobile only or mixed-
mode.

172MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
The general trend within the research world is towards device or platform agnostic
research, where the participants are given as much choice as possible in how they
take part in research projects; for example, giving participants choices in terms of time,
place, and device. Adopting this approach means that projects should only be created
as ‘mobile only’ if there are tangible benefits to the study of it being mobile only.
The key question to ask is ‘Why should participants wanting to use a PC be excluded?’
If there is no good reason to exclude people using PCs, then the research should be
mixed-mode, at least to the extent of allowing PCs.
Four situations that might create a preference for mobile only are:
1.If the research needs to be so mobile that a PC is unlikely to be suitable. For
example, if we want people to enter data during the day, perhaps every time
they engage in a specific activity or whenever they encounter a specific stimulus.
Researchers looking into drinks consumed during the day or public transport
experiences would fall into this category.
2.If the research uses features that are on mobile devices, but not on PCs, such
as app-based research. Examples of this category include: passive data collec-
tion, research that incorporates SMS, geofencing technology, taking photos, or
recording videos.
3.If the research relates to a mobile feature, such as game usability, mobile adver-
tising, or app functionality.
4.Where very fast or time specific responses are required, for example if a
researcher wanted to send a message to participants at various points through-
out the day and ask them what they were doing at that moment, or whether
they had heard about a breaking news story or ad campaign.
PHONE ONLY STUDIES
The term ‘mobile only’ implies that participants can use both phones and tablets. How-
ever, some studies are restricted to phones only. The definition of a phone is variable,
but for the purpose of this section, a phone is defined as a device small enough to
be carried all day, with a SIM (i.e. a mobile carrier connection), and capable of making
voice calls (i.e. it has a speaker and a microphone). This definition would include feature
phones, smartphones, and phablets.
Key reasons for a phone only study include:
1.Where the participants need to have their device with them throughout the
day, whilst they are out and about.

DIFFERENT MODES AT DIFFERENT STAGES173
2.Where the project uses features that exist on phones, but not tablets (or not
on most tablets). These features can be as basic as SMS or as complex as using
the phone’s inbuilt GPS. (It should be noted, however, that the range of tablets
with these features is growing.)
SMARTPHONE ONLY STUDIES
Smartphone only studies tend to be used when the research software or approach
being used only runs on devices with operating systems such as Google’s Android and
Apple’s iOS and where the research is not suitable for a tablet. This tends to mean the
device needs to be with people all day and/or is using features found on smartphones
and phablets, but not on most tablets.
TABLET ONLY STUDIES
Tablet only studies are rarer than PC only and phone only studies, at the moment. The
main reason for defining a study as tablet only would be that it needs the mobility of a
mobile device, and the screen size of a tablet.
The most common type of tablet only studies are found in mCAPI, where tablets are
used by interviewers to conduct interviews, and tend to be owned by the company
conducting the research or a fieldwork company. This is covered in more depth in the
mCAPI chapter.
DIFFERENT MODES AT DIFFERENT STAGES
Some projects benefit from using different modes at different stages, and potentially
using different research approaches at different stages, for example using a qualitative
discussion to follow a quantitative survey. In a multi-stage project, the question of mode
arises for each of the stages.
As mentioned earlier, the general preference, these days, is to use a platform agnostic
approach towards the modes employed, aiming to provide participants with a choice in
how they take part in research projects. In a multi-stage project this process is repeated
for each stage. This is shown in the hypothetical example outlined next.
APPLYING MIXED-MODE THINKING TO A HYPOTHETICAL
RESEARCH PROJECT
The project looks at the consumption of food over a single day, in a developed market,
i.e. one where smartphones are common and data charges are low. During the day the
participants are asked to complete a very short (2 minute survey) every time they eat

174MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
something, for example what they are eating, the situation, the preparation, and the
calorific value of the item being eaten.
The three stages of the project are:
1.A pre-project survey to capture background information
2.One day of recording food consumption
3.A post-event discussion forum to probe the reasons and motivations behind the
observed behaviour.
Table 11.1 illustrates how a mixed-mode approach could be applied to this project.
Table 11.1  Application of a mixed-mode approach
Stage    DescriptionMode Description
1Pre-project
background and
profiling survey
An online survey, configured to run on PCs, smartphones, and
tablets. Ownership of the correct device for stage 2 will be
checked at this stage.
2Collecting one day
of food data
This stage is smartphone/phablet only,* partly because the
device needs to be carried all day, partly because we want
participants to use an app to estimate the calories in their food
at the time that they eat their food, and the camera to take
pictures.
3Post-event
discussion, lasting
three days
An online discussion forum, configured to be suitable for PCs,
smartphones, and tablets.
∗
For some people a tablet would also be an option, if they are likely to have it with them all day, for example if they are
likely to be at home all day.
In this project, it would have been possible to insist that the participants use their phone
for all three stages. However, researchers have found that some participants prefer to
use their PC for online surveys and to take part in online discussions, so offering them
the choice for the first and third stages is a good option.
DESIGNING A MIXED-MODE PROJECT
This section looks at how to design a mixed-mode project; one that combines mobile
options with PC-based options. The basic elements of designing a mixed-mode project
are the same for quantitative and qualitative projects, but the details are different, so
this section will review both.

DESIGNING A MIXED-MODE PROJECT175
THE CORE ELEMENTS OF MIXED-MODE DESIGN
There are two guiding principles in designing mixed-mode research:
1.Select techniques that will best meet the research needs.
2.Select techniques that are equally suitable for all of the modes being used.
Although these two guidelines seem straightforward, problems can occur when they
conflict with each other. For example, if the best research approach is to conduct
webcam-enabled focus groups, participants using a smartphone might not have the
bandwidth to take part if they are relying on a 3G connection, and if the intention is
for participants to see all of the other attendees, then a smartphone’s screen may not
be large enough. Similarly, if the research design is for a discrete choice exercise, with
sets of eight cards to be shown together, then the reduced screen size of a smartphone
may make the exercise too different from the PC or tablet-based interview.
There are four approaches that researchers can take when trying to reconcile conflicts
between these two guidelines:
1.Amend the research method to make it suitable for all modes. For example, in
a choice exercise, reduce the number of choices being offered, or accept that
they won’t all be visible at the same time.
2.Modify the way a question works in one or more of the modes. For example,
a grid question might be asked in a traditional way on PC interviews, but as a
sequence of questions on a smartphone, or via dropdowns. This requires the
researcher to know or assume that the different styles of asking the question
will produce similar results. Sometimes these modifications can be quite subtle,
for example if the participant needs to view a video, it might be delivered via
streaming to PCs connected to broadband, but a more compressed file might
be transferred prior to viewing, for participants using a phone in locations where
their mobile internet might be slower.
3.Exclude the elements that are not compatible with the research design. This is
only possible if the research needs can still be met. For example, can a video be
replaced with a series of still images?
4.Exclude elements that are not compatible with a mode from those participants
who are connecting via that mode. For example, if a project is designed to
capture video interviews, those participants using PCs without a webcam would
not be asked to record an interview. As with option 2, this option requires the
researcher to know or assume that the differences created by dropping some
elements from some participants will not have an unacceptable impact on the
results.

176MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
QUALITATIVE MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
The key issues that confront researchers using mixed-mode qualitative research are:
∙
Participants using mobile devices may find it harder to view multimedia, espe-
cially if using a slower internet connection.
∙
Participants using PCs may find it harder to upload photos and video than users
of mobile devices. For example, they may need to use a camera or phone to
capture the media and then transfer it to the PC before uploading it.
∙
There may be differences in entering open-ended comments into different
devices. The existing research-on-research has provided a mixed picture, some
studies showing that open-ended responses on mobile are as good as or better
than text entered on a PC, but others showing the mobile text to be more
limited. The differences may relate to who is taking part in the research –
people who use mobiles heavily may be happier or find it easier to type text
answers into their phones and tablets than occasional users.
As with any feature of a qualitative research project, the different modes used by par-
ticipants should be one of the many characteristics examined and considered when
analysing and writing up the research. Differences can be a source of additional insight,
if recognized and addressed.
QUANTITATIVE MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
Quantitative research, typically, seeks to measure samples of people that represent a
specific group, and to use techniques that are consistent from one participant to another.
Both of these criteria can be problematic for mixed-mode research.
Two important issues to address in mixed-mode quantitative studies are:
1.Sample frame effects (i.e. if the different modes attract different people).
2.Mode effects (i.e. if the way the question is asked or answered is changed by the
mode).
SAMPLE FRAME ISSUES WITH MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
Much of the work looking at the impact of mobile devices on sample frames has been
done in the area of telephone (CATI) surveys. This is particularly useful since there
should be relatively few mode effects when comparing mobile samples with landline
samples. Both modes are interviewer administered, using the same software from the
interviewer perspective, with the same questionnaire, many landlines are cordless, and
most mobile interviews are conducted in the home (Pennay et al. 2013).

DESIGNING A MIXED-MODE PROJECT177
The first difference between mobile frames and other frames relates to demographics.
For example, mobile samples tend to be younger. This difference is fairly easy to spot
and to manage (e.g. by weighting).
The second difference is psychographic. Researchers have reported (Hu et al. 2011;
Pennay et al. 2013) that mobile samples, even after allowing for demographic differ-
ences, can display some behavioural and attitudinal differences. For example, the mobile
sample reported more risk taking behaviours, including being more likely to take drugs.
In one sense, both of these differences are good things. They both indicate that the
addition of mobile participants has found people who were previously being missed.
The problem is determining how to combine the different sample frames and how to
deal with changes over time. The ‘over time’ issue arises as there is an expectation that
the proportion of mobile participants will increase over time, changing the balance of
mobile participants within ongoing research projects and potentially causing benchmarks
and norms to become out of date.
MODE EFFECTS WITH MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
Mode effects are situations where the data changes because of the way the questions
are asked. Generally, the mode effects of mobile versus PC appear to have been smaller
than was initially feared. This topic is covered more fully elsewhere in the book and in the
Research-on-Research chapter. However, it should be noted that research-on-research
shows that there are some differences in the data collected from PC and mobile surveys
caused by mode effects, and this should be kept in mind.
There are broadly three strategies for dealing with mode effects in mixed-mode quan-
titative research:
1.Avoid those questions most associated with mode effects, such as multi-select
grids.
2.Standardize the data from each participant before aggregating it.
3.If the project has multiple waves, control for mode, typically by ensuring that the
proportion of the sample using mobile devices is constant across waves.
There is a widespread concern that many users of mixed-mode research, especially
those conducting unintentional mobile research, are not checking for mode effects and
therefore not dealing with issues that may be in their data.
CHECKING FOR MODE EFFECTS IN MIXED-MODE DATA
Although there have been a number of research-on-research studies looking at the
mode effects of mobile versus PC-based online research, the picture is not fully resolved.

178MIXED-MODE RESEARCH
(Several of these studies are reported in this book in the Research-on-Research chap-
ter.) However, some findings about mode differences are summarized next:
1.Most standard question types appear to give broadly similar answers when
answered via mobile and PC.
2.Some question types appear to generate different answers, for example multi-
select grids and large complex conjoint questions. For example, when using grids
it would appear that on mobile devices more items are selected, and large con-
joint analysis choice sets appear to generate more confusion.
3.There is a widely held view that a 20–30 minute online survey is acceptable, but
the same researchers tend to assert that a 20–30 minute mobile survey is not
acceptable. This would suggest mode effects (or sample frame effects) if long
surveys were conducted as mixed-mode studies. However, there are also many
researchers who doubt the quality of a 25 minute PC/online survey, and some
who claim long mobile surveys are acceptable.
Because research-on-research into mode effects is still being conducted, and is likely to
be researched for the next few years, researchers should take responsibility for checking
their results for mode effects.
The key steps in checking for mode effects include the following actions:
1.Ensure that the type of device used by the participant is captured. At the very
least, the data should be identified as mobile or PC, but ideally the data should
be more detailed, such as phone, phablet, small tablet, and larger tablet.
2.Compare the aggregate data, looking at mobile versus PC. If there are no impor-
tant differences then there are probably no major problems. However, it is likely
there will be differences because the demographic profile of the mobile partici-
pants is likely to be different from the PC sample.
3.Create cells based on demographic or other groups and compare mobile ver-
sus PC within these groups. For example, the data could be divided into four
groups, Young Males, Young Females, Older Males, Older Females, and for each
of these four, compare mobile versus PC. If any of the cells are too small,
they can normally be ignored as they are unlikely to change the answers of
a quantitative project. If there are no differences within these groups (between
mobile and PC) there are unlikely to be mode effects big enough to distort
the findings.
4.If, after all these steps, there are still differences, then it is likely that there are
mode effects. The options that are available to the researcher include: stan-
dardizing those responses with differences; using weighting; analysing the data
separately; or simply highlighting/annotating the effect in the results.

SUMMARY179
These checks are less relevant for a single project comparing cells (e.g. a four-cell con-
cept test), where the mode effects are more likely to be evenly distributed across the
cells. However, these steps are likely to be more important when conducting studies
over time (such as a tracking study) or a study where people are going to be divided
into groups depending on their responses, such as in a segmentation study.
SUMMARY
The trend in market research is towards a device agnostic position, where participants
are free to choose how they want to take part in research. The only way a researcher
can avoid mixed-mode studies is by taking specific measures to exclude participants
who seek to use other platforms and devices.
Given that mixed-mode research is likely to be the norm, more work needs to be done
by the market research industry to evaluate the sampling frame and mode effect impacts
of combining mobile research with PC-based online research. This research should not
be seen as a reason to avoid using mixed-mode, but as a method of improving mixed-
mode research.
There are a number of key issues that researchers should consider in the context of
mixed-mode research:
∙
Offering participants a choice of modes is likely to widen the range of people
represented by the study.
∙
Mixed-mode research can introduce mode effects, where the answers that
participants give are impacted by the choice of modes offered.
∙
Unintentional mobile (an online study intended for PCs, but where some par-
ticipants use mobile devices) is a mixed-mode study.
∙
Researchers should consider mixed-mode at the design stage, determining
what modes will work for which stages of the research, and how best to design
the research for the modes they are using.
∙
Researchers should inspect the data to see if there are mode effects.
∙
The most basic requirement in looking for mode effects is to capture the type
of device being used, so the data can be analysed by device differences.
∙
Whilst most question types appear to give similar answers when asked on,
say, mobile devices and PCs, a few do seem to give different responses.
∙
There is likely to be ongoing research-on-research into multi-mode research;
researchers are advised to monitor learnings and developments in the area.

12
Utilizing Passive
Data
INTRODUCTION
Passive data collection refers to the process of collecting data without participants having
to enter their data. For example, the GPS location facility of a mobile phone can record
where a participant travels without the participant having to do anything other than:
agree to the process; download or utilize an app; and ensure that GPS tracking is turned
on. There is a short summary of some of the key features and sensors found on modern
mobile devices, near the end of the chapter.
In essence there are three things that passive data collection can achieve in conjunction
with mobile devices:
1.Track where the device goes.
2.Track what the device is used for.
3.Gathering background information.
The chapter starts by giving a brief overview of the current situation for passive
data collection and market research and then reviews each of the three points
above.
THE CURRENT STATUS OF PASSIVE MEASUREMENT
IN MARKET RESEARCH
In general, the use of passive data collection for market research requires the use of
apps, which tends to mean persuading participants to download an app to their device
in order to take part in the research project. For providers of apps and providers of
handsets there is also the option to embed passive data collection code.

TRACKING LOCATION181
Although the idea of passive data is very attractive to marketers, market researchers,
and data scientists, there are relatively few cases in mainstream market research, to
date, where passive data collection has been shown to be particularly useful in mar-
ket research. Most of the good examples of passive data delivering value come from
specialist parts of the market research world (such as media measurement) and from
outside market research.
The relative absence of a body of market research knowledge about how to turn passive
data into actionable market research insight is partly a reflection the newness of the
approach and also the complexity of combining the sort of information produced by
passive tracking with the sorts of questions asked by market research.
The future of passive data collection is likely to be a combination of richer measure-
ments (as devices develop an enhanced range of features and sensors), better analysis
approaches and tools, and integration with active information (e.g. using passive infor-
mation to trigger a survey, discussion, or some other activity).
USING PASSIVE INFORMATION TO TRIGGER AN ACTION
One use of passive data collection is to trigger an action. For example, if the location
system says a research participant is at a specific restaurant an app can trigger a survey
or an open-ended question about the visit, or a request to take a picture. At this stage
the data collection ceases to be entirely passive, but things like time of day, location,
and so on are still captured passively and combined with the user entered information.
PASSIVE DATA AND ETHICS
Just like any other form of market research, market research based on passive data
collection requires informed consent. However, non-market research use of passive
data collection, such as embedded apps, is often not based on informed consent.
Passive data can be personally identifiable, and it can be sensitive, so researchers need to
ensure they protect the data privacy and data security of participants and clients when
conducting passive data collection.
TRACKING LOCATION
Although the technology of tracking relates to mobile devices, in most research cases
the intention of tracking is to determine where research participants are. For this reason,

182UTILIZING PASSIVE DATA
tracking-based research is usually focused on phones rather than tablets. There are three
key approaches that market research utilizes, in terms of location:
1.Geographical location, i.e. where the device/participant is on a macro scale. For
example, what route did participants take when travelling to work, including
what media they came in contact with, for example billboards, public screens,
broadcasts, and so on?
2.Location within a site. For example, which shopping aisles did a participant visit?
3.Location within a system. For example, using a mobile device to swipe in or out
of a specific service?
These three types of location research tend to utilize different technologies, are often
used for different purposes, and sometimes require different levels of cooperation from
the participant.
1. TRACKING GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION
There are a variety of reasons why somebody might want to record the location of
participants, with many of those reasons extending well beyond the normal area of
interest for market researchers. These reasons include:
∙
Traffic planning and management.Knowing where pedestrians and even
cars are, can allow traffic controllers to manage day-to-day affairs and to plan
for changes and developments. Similarly, marketers can use this information to
identify routes with high traffic levels, in order to prioritize them for marketing
materials and activities.
∙
Tracking specific activities.At the simplest level, RFIDs are used to record
the progress of runners in events such as marathons, at the more complex end
phones and smart watches can track routes, speeds, calories used, and can
even be linked to biometric measures such as heart rate. At events such as
trade shows and conferences, Near Field Communication (NFC – see glossary
for more information) can be used to identify who enters specific rooms, visits
booths, or asks for information.
∙
Opportunity to see.Tracking where a participant is, allows researchers/
advertisers to assess whether the participant has had an opportunity to see
something, for example outdoor advertising.
∙
Tracking life events.For example, by tracking location, the researcher can
understand how much time the participant spends at home, at work, and
how long they spend travelling. This information can be used on its own or in
conjunction with the answers to questions.

TRACKING LOCATION183
The technology of geographic tracking
Geographic tracking tends to use one of the following three technologies:
1.GPS.This requires: the device to have a GPS receiver, the receiver has to be
turned on, and the device has to be able to contact at least three satellites
(which tends to mean the participant cannot be in a building or underground).
To utilize GPS tracking the participant typically has to download an app, which
will interface with the GPS receiver and supply the researcher with the location
coordinates.
2.Tower location.The mobile phone service providers can locate phones
(and any device using a SIM) via the broadcast towers they use to pro-
vide their services. Third parties can only access this information via the
telecommunication companies. Wired.com reported (9/12/13 www.wired.com/
threatlevel/2013/12/massive-domestic-monitorning/) that in the USA there
were about 1.1 million requests for cellular data, including more than 9000 cell
tower dumps from the police and relevant authorities – which identifies every
mobile phone at a particular location and time (Kravets 2013).
3.Partial tracking.Systems such as RFIDs (like those used by runners in
marathons), Wi-Fi, NFC, and CCTV can be used to build up a picture of a
participant’s journey. For example, with CCTV a participant can be tracked as
they move through a shopping mall.
Turning tracking data into information
Raw tracking data can initially be relatively unhelpful to market researchers. For example,
the GPS data from a phone can supply location information in a near continuous stream,
which can produce enormous amounts of data very quickly.
One key difference in how tracking data is analysed is whether the study is based on a
small number of participants, for example ten people, or a larger number such as 1000,
or a very large number such as tens or hundreds of thousands.
Dealing with small sample sizes
With a small number of participants the data gathered is essentially qualitative (even if
there is a large amount of data per person). The analysis of individual data can often be
dealt with graphically, for example by plotting the journey on a map and looking at it in
connection with additional feedback from the participant (including photos, comments,
or even reviewing the maps with the participants). There are a wide range of tools
available that will take GPS data and produce maps.

184UTILIZING PASSIVE DATA
Dealing with larger sample sizes
In most cases, with larger sample sizes, the data needs simplifying before being used as
an input into a market research insight process. Strategies for simplifying/utilizing tracking
data include:
1.Turning the data into aggregate units, such as length of journey (time), journey
distance, speed (e.g. maximum, minimum, and average), time of journey (morn-
ing, daytime, evening, and night time), and number of journeys.
2.Using software to produce ‘typical’ journeys. For example, around the ring road,
through the centre of the town, or A to B versus A to B to A.
3.Turning the data into sectors. For example, a city centre could be configured
as an 8×8 grid of 64 squares and the location data used to record which
squares the participant visited. If the researcher knows what is in each square they
can estimate participants’ opportunity to see specific features (such as outdoor
advertising).
2. TRACKING LOCATION WITHIN A SITE
Tracking a participant within a location might be on a scale as large as a festival site or
shopping mall, or in an area as small as a shopping aisle. The type of data used will vary
on the setting and technology. For example, journeys around a large festival might utilize
GPS, journeys through a building might use RFIDs or Bluetooth LE.
Tracking location within a site can be used for the same sorts of reasons that geographic
location can be used, for example measuring traffic flows, opportunity to see, or activi-
ties. In addition, within site tracking can be used for a wide range of site specific, typically
tactical research, projects such as:
∙
Optimizing layouts, shelves, signage, and promotions.
∙
Evaluating stimuli as varied as alternative packaging, point of sale wording,
and announcements.
∙
Understanding visitor or shopping dynamics. In a museum or theme park this
might involve studying how people assemble and create a trip. In retail environ-
ments, within site tracking can identify shopping patterns. For example, how
many people go back for something, how many buy their cold items last, how
many go up and down all the aisles, and how many go to a set number of
specific destinations?
As with geographic location, quantitative tracking analysis tends to require substantial
aggregation or simplification before it can be analysed, producing patterns of routes,

TRACKING LOCATION185
length of journeys, location of delays, hot spots within the site, and so on. Qualitative
data is often viewed as a map, or as a video or image sequence.
The technology of within site tracking
The main outdoor option, GPS, tends not to work within a site, for example within a
shopping mall, because there is no link to GPS satellites. Cell tower location can work
within a site, but it requires a third party (a mobile telephone service provider) and may
not be sufficiently accurate for the very specific requirements of issues such as browsing
a shopping fixture.
Several technologies can be used for within site tracking:
∙
Wi-Fi can be used to locate Wi-Fi-enabled devices. Standard Wi-Fi only locates
a device to an area the size of a shop or large room, but some of the newer
low power Wi-Fi devices, with portable transmitters, can locate a device to a
much smaller area.
∙
Wearable technologies, such as cameras, phones used as cameras, eye track-
ing devices such as Tobii Glasses, and Google Glass, can be used to create a
visual record of a journey, allowing routes and items viewed to be assessed. A
large proportion of visual tracking is qualitative, as there are relatively few
options to automate the translation of photos and video into quantitative
information.
∙
RFIDs have been used for many years to track people around buildings and
items such as shopping trolleys/carts around stores. RFIDs tend to be used for
route mapping and the assessment of issues such as visit length and dwell
time at specific fixtures. Tracking via RFID requires participants to carry an
RFID (e.g. in a shopping basket or identity badge) and the location needs to
be equipped with sensors to track the RFID.
∙
Beacon and app technologies, based on sound or radio (especially Bluetooth
LE) beacons, are being used to locate people to specific locations, such as
when they enter a store, or when they approach a shelf. One of the high
profile products in this area is Apple’s iBeacon.
Market research use of within site location
It is too early define all of the uses that within site location is going to utilize, but two
current uses are:
∙
To identify when somebody enters a location, for example when they enter a
specific branch of a coffee chain. This information can be used to record visits,

186UTILIZING PASSIVE DATA
but it is more typically used by marketers to offer coupons or marketing offers,
and by researchers to initiate a research activity, such as a survey.
∙
To research participant interaction with specific store fixtures and features,
such as shelves or point of sale promotions.
3. TRACKING LOCATION WITHIN A SYSTEM
Tracking within a system refers to recording the points where a participant interacts
with a system. One example of this sort of tracking is to follow passengers through a
public transport system as they swipe in and out of different stations, buses, trams, and
ferries. Other forms of tracking look at the usage of ATMs, digital payment systems, and
mobile phone calls.
The tracking of location within a system does not produce a continuous record, it
produces a series of points, in the form of a place and time.
The concept of passive tracking (i.e. that it is accurate because it does not require the
participant to do anything) can be compromised or altered by engaging the participant
in the process. For example, marketers have experimented with using NFC to collect
information. In one case, participants in a project were encouraged to use their smart-
phones to collect information from a series of data collection points within a site, in
order to win a game and potentially gain a discount. This sort of process can provide
information about the movement of the participant through the site, but the process is
not entirely passive. However, the participants have been encouraged to change their
behaviour and it is this changed behaviour (and the participants’ ability/inclination to
follow instructions) that is being recorded.
Utilizing existing apps
As well as recruiting participants to load their mobile devices with apps that track their
actions and movements, a growing number of people are using apps and gadgets to
collect data about their own lives. Generically this practice is referred to as the quantified
self. Examples of the quantified self, are apps such as RunKeeper and Endomondo and
gadgets such as Garmin Vivofit and FitBit Flex.
The quantified self represents millions of consumers and citizens collecting data about
their own lives, routes, journeys, activities, and calorific usage. This pool of information
is beginning to be recognized as a resource for market research and insight.
Location summary
Over the last ten years there has been a shift, in market research, from relying on
people’s memories and stated beliefs towards observational data. This is because people

TRACKING LOCATION187
are often very bad at remembering what they have seen and unaware of many of the
things they do. For example, asking people what outdoor advertising they have seen
produces a very poor record of the material they have actually encountered.
Location data produces, potentially, accurate data about journeys, timings, and activities.
The two key challenges in using location data are:
1.The shortage of good market research tools for transforming quantitative scale
location data into suitable forms for analysis and insight.
2.The difficulty in linking observable behaviour to underlying motivations and
meaning.
The Power and Perils of Tracking Device Usage
Marcelo Ballve (2013) provides an example of the power and the perils of using
device usage tracking devices. He compared the data from Flurry and Experian
in terms of the number of hours a day spent using apps and found an interesting
difference. Flurry produced an estimate of 2 hours’ app usage a day amongst US
smartphone owners, but Experian produced an estimate of just under 1 hour.
Ballve (2013) explored the differences and at the same time provided some insight
into the need to contextualize passive data.
Flurry were measuring apps on tablets and phones, but Experian were just mea-
suring them on phones – so that could create some differences. However, the
main point Ballve was making related to the context for the passive measurement.
Flurry provide app developers with a service. App developers can embed code
from Flurry in their apps and every time the app is run it sends a signal to Flurry,
who collect aggregated market information and provide the app developer with
detailed and comparative information. From the app user’s point of view this is
truly passive, in the sense that most app users do not know it is happening.
Experian have a panel of people who have downloaded a monitor app onto their
device that records what they do; panel members have given their consent for
this to happen. Experian monitor things like calls, games, internet usage and then
average it across the sample to get an overall picture.
So, the Flurry figure is based on a much bigger sample size, but a sample of people
who are using apps. The Experian figure is based on a more representative but
smaller sample, and includes people who don’t use apps, and people who hardly
use apps.

188UTILIZING PASSIVE DATA
The lesson is that usage monitoring can measure something accurately, but a
researcher has to make sure they know what the something is, and how it relates
to their business question, before using it.
TRACKING DEVICE USAGE
With suitable applications, every aspect of a mobile device can potentially be used
to track device usage. The list of uses that can be tracked is large and is constantly
changing. Uses that are of interest to market researchers include internet usage, social
media, email, phone calls, and apps used.
However, in practice some of these options are not available. The writers of apps do
not have unrestricted access to all of the internal services of the phone, especially on
iPhones. Some developers have found ways around the limitations, but these alterna-
tives tend to break operating systems rules and a number of service providers, includ-
ing Google, are seeking to make it harder/impossible to gather some sorts of usage
behaviour, for example to monitor browsing activity.
A key research application of monitoring device usage is to understand the devices
themselves. For example, tracking mobile internet usage can be used to optimize web-
site and service design. Similarly, usage information about phones helps the design of
phones and services.
Social researchers utilize phone usage, including the network of calls, IMs, apps, cameras,
and so on, to research social characteristics of modern life. Research that reveals, for
example, how often people look at their phone is based on passive data collection.
GATHERING BACKGROUND INFORMATION
As well as location and device usage, mobile devices can be used to collect background
information. In this context this means background information about the device and
background information about the world around the participant.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ABOUT THE DEVICE
When a mobile device is used to take part in a research exercise, it can be queried
to determine various pieces of information, such as the operating system, the screen
size, and the type of connection. These sorts of information are very similar to the
background information that can be collected when a participant uses a PC to take part
in an online research exercise.

GATHERING BACKGROUND INFORMATION189
Permission to collect the more basic types of background data is normally obtained
before making use of this processing. The options presented to the participant are
typically to agree to the processing or to withdraw from the project (i.e. to take the
survey or not take the survey).
INFORMATION ABOUT THE WORLD AROUND THE PARTICIPANT
One of the most exciting prospects about passive data collection is the move to collect
a detailed picture of what is going on around the research participant. Cameras and
video (e.g. Memoto and GoPro) can be used to collect images of the world around the
participant. Audio recognition can identify the programmes and ads that a participant is
exposed to.
Some mobile phones can collect information about the temperature, humidity, air pres-
sure, noise, and a growing range of background factors – the list of features and sensors
varies by phone. The phones can collect (through Bluetooth and similar) the presence
of other devices and by implication other people. It is envisaged that smartphones will,
at some point in the future, replace many of the specialist devices used by researchers,
such as the people meters used in the auditing of media usage.
MEDIA MEASUREMENT
One of the longest standing uses of passive tracking has been media measurement.
Devices such as Arbitron’s Portable People Meter (PPM) is worn like a pager and iden-
tifies when audible radio signatures are heard. In late 2012 Nielsen bought Arbitron
Radio Ratings Service and it is now Nielsen Radio. As well as PPM, Nielsen has added
smartphone and tablet apps to its passive monitoring portfolio.
Three key reasons that media measurement is one of the relatively few market research
areas that has so far dealt well with the quantitative use of passive data include:
1.A long background in quantifying behaviour, dating back decades in the case of
diaries.
2.Having a large market, which means an investment can earn its ROI across mul-
tiple clients and projects.
3.Being prepared to make large scale investments in new technologies.
Perhaps a fourth reason is being aware that if the current players do not use the new
technologies, new entrants could enter the market utilizing new approaches, and offer
a better, faster, cheaper service.

190UTILIZING PASSIVE DATA
OVERVIEW OF PASSIVE MONITORING FEATURES
Table 12.1 shows several of the features and sensors of phones and tablets that can be
used for passive data collection.
Table 12.1  Some features and sensors of mobile devices that can be used for passive
data collection
Feature/SensorMeasureComments
GPSCollects GPS
coordinates
measured by
longitude and
latitude
Can identify the current location of the phone and
can track the points travelled through, producing a
record of a journey.
Cell TowerCell tower-based
location detection
Cell towers are used to transmit voice and data to
mobile phones and can be used by the service
provider to locate users remotely and record their
movement.
GyroscopeMeasures
movement of a
phone especially its
360 degree rotation
of the mobile device
The phone’s gyroscope has the potential to inform
the researcher about the nature of the participant’s
journey, e.g. smooth or full of turns, as well as
helping understand thing like the position of the
phone during tasks like videoing and taking
photographs.
AccelerometerMovement of the
phone
The potential uses for the accelerometer are
similar to the gyroscope. While the gyroscope
measures the tilting and the up down movement of
the device; the accelerometer measures the lateral
and speed of movement of the mobile device
CookiesBrowser historyCookies allow passive monitoring of mobile sites
visited.
Native OS
activity
monitoring
Programs (apps) can
be embedded and
read activity at the
native level of the
phone’s operating
system.
Potentially measures device usage, including
turning features on and off, battery usage, calls,
internet usage. However, this is not always
permitted by the operating system.
MicrophoneSound recordingThe microphone can be used, in addition to its
normal uses, to listen for signals from audio
beacons and signatures embedded in radio and TV
ads.
CameraImages, including
static, repeated, and
video.
Cameras can be programmed to run continuously,
or to take a picture every few seconds or minutes,
and this information can be linked with date, time,
location, as well as information from the
gyroscope and accelerometer.

SUMMARY191
SUMMARY
The key points about passive data collection, for market researchers are:
∙
If it is market research it requires informed consent.
∙
It potentially offers a better way of measuring what people do and the things
they interact with, compared to asking people questions and asking them to
recall what they saw, did, or felt.
∙
Passive data collection can replace the inaccuracies of memory and estimation
with the accuracy of tracked, automatically recorded, digitized behaviour.
∙
Passive data collection can require less effort from participants than other
forms of conventional market research.
∙
Passive data collection is currently in its early stages, most forecasters expect
it to develop and grow considerably.
∙
It tends to be app-based, which means asking participants to download the
app.
∙
The areas that have made the best use of passive data so far are: media
measurement companies, companies from outside of market research, and
qualitative research.
∙
Mainstream quantitative researchers have struggled, so far, to combine the
sorts of data produced by passive tracking with the sorts of business questions
they are faced with.

13
Panels, Lists, and
Communities
INTRODUCTION
This chapter looks at three key ways that researchers connect with research participants,
particularly when seeking to conduct quantitative research. These three routes are:
1.Access panels, i.e. a database of people who have signed up to take part in
market research
2.Customer lists, i.e. the customers of the research client
3.Research communities, for example, MROCs, community panels, and insight
communities.
All of these three routes are used to recruit participants for quantitative and qualitative
research. However, traditional recruitment methods are also important for qualitative
research, including mobile qualitative market research.
In addition to reviewing the key characteristics of these three approaches, the chapter
includes a brief overview of alternative approaches.
ACCESS PANELS
Access panels are typically run by companies (or divisions of larger companies) spe-
cializing in making research participants available to other market research companies,
independent market researchers, and organizations using research. In the language of
the online access panel business, they are suppliers of sample. For example, companies
like Research Now and Survey Sampling International specialize in providing sample, as
does LightSpeed, which is part of the Kantar Group.
Access panels create databases of large numbers of people who have agreed to take
part in market research, usually in return for incentives. The core business of an access
panel is to make their members available for market research, usually for market research

ACCESS PANELS193
surveys. The panel companies make their money by charging the researcher a fee, typ-
ically for each completed interview.
Currently, most mobile access panels are derived from online access panels, but this
is likely to change over the next few years, and there are already some panels whose
focus is mobile. All of the considerations that apply when using an access panel for
online research also apply when using access panels for mobile research.
THE ROLE OF THE MARKET RESEARCHER WHEN
WORKING WITH PANELS
Access panels are constructed in many different ways and tend to have different
nuances, with one of the key determinants being how they were recruited. For example,
if one panel was originally a customer list and another was originally recruited via online
advertising the resultant panels will tend to differ, even after several years.
Online access panels are rarely a good representation of the researcher’s target popu-
lation. They represent people who use the internet more than average and over rep-
resent people who want to take part in research to gain rewards. It is necessary for the
researcher to use a sampling strategy, and/or a processing/modelling strategy, that takes
this into account. Quota sampling based on demographic characteristics (age, sex, edu-
cation, etc.) is one popular way of specifying an online sample. Quotas may also relate
to behaviour, such as having recently purchased a specific type of product. Random
sampling of the target population cannot be achieved via an access panel, except in the
most unusual of cases, for example where people have been selected for membership
through some random selection process and where devices and internet access are
provided to people who don’t already have it.
In most cases, the panel company takes care of all the communications with the research
participants: sending survey invitations to them; sending them any required links; and
dealing with incentives. The panel company is responsible for selecting a sample that
meets the requirements of the research, although the researcher normally defines the
sample.
Typically, in quantitative projects, the panel company will deal with any queries from the
research participants. One of the key reasons for this is that the identity of the panel
members is commercially sensitive and most panel companies are reluctant to share
this with others.
However, when dealing with a qualitative project it is often necessary to put the partic-
ipants in direct contact with the researcher, particularly if the research takes place over
a number of days or weeks.

194PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
ONLINE ACCESS PANELS
At the moment, most access panels are organized around online surveys, rather than
mobile surveys, qualitative research, or ongoing projects such as passive tracking.
When supplying people for a project that requires participants to use a mobile device
(e.g. a smartphone or tablet), the panel company will typically adopt one of two options:
1.They may have profiled their members in terms of what devices they own. In
which case they can target invitations to the appropriate members.
2.They may send invitations to panel members who meet the broad criteria
(such as demographics) and screen for ownership of the correct device or
devices.
The potential problem with using an online access panel to recruit mobile participants is
that it assumes that mobile users are a subset of internet users. In many markets such as
Finland, South Korea, the USA, and Australia, this is broadly true. However, in markets
where mobile phone use is much more widespread than internet use (such as India,
and indeed the whole of Africa) a mobile sample collected from an online access panel
may be seriously skewed because many more people in these countries have access to
the internet via a mobile device, than via fixed connections. In these parts of the world
traditional online research is being skipped, with the trend being to go from face-to-face
directly to mobile research.
As the penetration of mobile devices moves towards 100% in many markets, the pos-
sibility of mobile panels that are more representative than online panels arises. The
self-selection and sensitizing issues will still be there, but the access issue will diminish.
However, even when close to 100% of target groups have mobile phones, the propor-
tion accessing the internet from their mobile device may still be well under 100%.
MOBILE SPECIFIC PANELS
Mobile specific panels are panels where the members have been recruited and profiled
because they own a mobile device and have said they are prepared to take part in
market research via their mobile device.
At the moment, most mobile panels are focused on phones, rather than specifically on
tablets or other non-phone devices, but this is likely to change over time. Mobile panel
companies will typically have more than one way that they can contact their members,
for example email, SMS, and voice.

ACCESS PANELS195
Some of the mobile panels are focused on smartphones, but others have feature phone
options. Feature phones are a necessary element if the panel is intended to be broadly
representative of any market, even a developed market.
UNINTENTIONAL MOBILE
As mentioned in earlier chapters, a large proportion of quantitative mobile market
research is ‘unintentional’ mobile. For example, a project might be commissioned and
specified as online, but a quarter of the participants might choose to complete it on
a mobile device. Whilst allowing participants a wider range of modes to choose from
will tend to increase the diversity amongst the participants, it may also introduce mode
effects, i.e. different modes may systematically change the results, because of the device
used and the context in which the survey is taken. More information on the issues of
mixed-mode research is included in the chapter on Mixed-Mode Research.
Researchers should ensure that they know which devices are suitable for their study
and seek to prevent (in a polite and courteous way) anybody with an inappropriate
device from taking part in the study. However, unless there are good reasons why a
study should be PC only, or mobile only, most studies should be suitable for PC, tablet,
and smartphone.
Researchers should capture information about the sorts of devices used by participants
to take part in the study, in order to check at analysis time the nature of any mode
effects.
WORKING WITH PANEL COMPANIES
Working with a panel company to create a mobile or mixed-mode study is logistically
much easier than almost any other method of conducting a quantitative research study.
The panel company should be able to offer advice on what is likely to work and what
is likely to cause a problem. The panel company will deal with the invitations, all or
most of the queries, and the incentives. Some panel companies will also script and host
the survey and supply the data, either as a data file or as data tables.
The main task for the researcher, when working with a panel company, is to ensure
that the project has been properly specified and to check the data to ensure that only
people with the right sort of devices have taken part. When first dealing with a new
panel company it is a good idea to check how their panel was recruited, whom it
represents (e.g. in China it might be focused on Tier 1 and Tier 2 cities), whether they
‘blend’ participants from other panels, and whether they abide by the relevant codes
and standards. One good starting point, when finding out about a new supplier, is to
ask for their answers to ESOMAR’s 28 questions.

196PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
ESOMAR’s 28 Questions to Help Research Buyers of Online Samples
ESOMAR (2012b) maintain a list of key questions that can be asked to the
providers of research samples to help understand the nature and quality of the
service they provide.
At the time of writing, the list had 28 questions, covering five key areas:
1.Company profile
2.Sample sources and recruitment
3.Sampling and project management
4.Data quality and validation
5.Policies and compliance.
The current version of the questions can be obtained from the ESOMAR website,
www.ESOMAR.org.
PANELS AND APPS
A growing number of access panels are developing apps to allow them to offer both
browser-based and app-based projects. Because panels have an ongoing relationship
with their members it is easier to spread the cost of apps over multiple projects. Similarly,
since panel members are keen to do more surveys they are often more willing than ad
hoc participants to download an app onto their phone and/or tablet.
CUSTOMER LISTS
A customer list is provided by the researcher’s client and can be as simple as an Excel
file, with names, email addresses, and/or telephone numbers, or it can be part of a com-
prehensive CRM database. Most client owned lists are based on customers registering
and supplying their details, as part of buying some product or service, or through opt-
ing in to receive communications. But some client owned lists are much broader than
this and will include names purchased from list vendors, ex-customers, and prospective
customers.
Compared with access panels, using a customer list requires the researcher to be more
aware of potential pitfalls and to take responsibility for the sample being a suitable proxy

CUSTOMER LISTS197
for the population being studied. For example, the researcher needs to ensure that a
suitable subset of the total list has been selected.
When using a customer list for market research, the researcher should check that the
appropriate permissions are in place, that is to say that the people on the list have
consented to be contacted for market research. Note, consent means different things
in different markets. In some locations consent will be by opting in, in others it is via not
opting out.
INVITING PARTICIPANTS
Potential research participants will either be invited by the client or the research agency.
There are two potential advantages of the client sending the invitations:
1.In general, the response rate to the invitation will be higher if the client sends the
invitation rather than if a third party sends it. Even when the client prefers that
the researcher send the invitation, including the client’s name in the invitation
has been shown to increase response rates.
2.There may be fewer data protection steps to navigate, for the researcher, if the
client sends the invitations.
Potential participants are sent an invitation to the study, including a link to the survey.
The invitation and the link should make it clear that if the recipient clicks on the link
they are consenting to some data transfer to the research agency – as specified by the
research project’s terms and conditions and privacy policy.
Options for sending the invitations
In many cases the best option for inviting people to take part in a study, even a mobile
study, is via email. However, if the client has telephone numbers, then SMS or some
other telephone related messaging can be more appropriate. For example, if the client
is a telecommunications provider (a telco) then SMS can be much better way of con-
necting with potential participants for a mobile study.
DRAWING A SAMPLE
When using a client’s customer list, it is important to draw a sample that reflects the
target population. In most cases, the sample will either be:
1.a quota controlled sample, for example the right number (or proportion) of
males, females, young, and old, etc.;
2.a random sample from the full customer list.

198PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
Note, in traditional research, a random sample is often the best option. However, as
with access panels, a client’s list may contain distorting factors that have contributed to
the construction of the list. For example, newer customers might be more likely to have
recorded their email address, so a random sample of customers with email addresses
may over-recruit new customers. Therefore, a quota controlled sample will often be
the best approach.
When drawing a sample from a client list, care needs to be taken not to introduce
systematic biases. For example if a sample of 10 000 contacts was created by taking the
first 10 000 records from the client database, the market researcher might find that:
1.The list might have been sorted alphabetically, producing a list of people whose
family names starts with A, which could relate to a specific ethnic group or
culture.
2.The list might reflect the order that people became customers, so the first
10 000 records might be the people who have been customers longest.
3.The list might be organized by geography, so the first 10 000 records could come
from a single region or sales account.
DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
The first step in using a client list is to ensure that the client has the appropriate per-
missions in place in order to allow the research to take place, in the way intended. For
example, if the researcher will be sending the invitations, permissions need to be in
place for the data to be transferred.
In most cases, it is not possible, under market research rules and guidelines, to transfer
individual results back to the client after the research takes place. For example, mar-
ket research rules do not normally allow usage information from a customer’s survey
responses to be added to the customer database. If there is a need to transfer indi-
vidual information back to the client, then care should be taken to (a) obtain clearly
expressed consent from the participants, (b) ensure that the client agrees to protect
the confidentiality of respondents, and (c) check on the research status of the project,
in accordance to market research guidelines.
If invitations to take part in the study have been sent by the research agency, then
there is typically personally identifiable information. Care needs to be taken to keep this
secure, and to make it anonymous at the first suitable opportunity.
SCREENING FOR DEVICE USAGE
Most client lists are going to be out of date to some extent. Therefore, when invit-
ing customers to take part in the survey, care needs to be taken to ensure that

RESEARCH COMMUNITIES199
people still meet the criteria for the study, including possession of a suitable mobile
device.
RESEARCH COMMUNITIES
Research communities, including insight communities, MROCs (Market Research Online
Communities), and community panels, may be operated and managed by either clients
or researchers. In either case, the result is a very ‘hands on’ experience for the
researcher, both in general and in the area of mobile communications and market
research. This section of the chapter provides an overview of research communities
and outlines the various ways in which mobile devices are used.
One key difference between research communities and the other two sample sources
mentioned so far in this chapter, panels and lists, is that communities are commonly
associated with both quantitative and qualitative research. Panels and lists can be used
to obtain participants for qualitative research, but they are more typically focused on
quantitative research.
AN OVERVIEW OF RESEARCH COMMUNITIES
A typical research community is a private, branded, online community composed of
customers who have agreed to participate in research projects. In a private community
the members of the community are only available to the brand or organization that
commissioned and/or runs the community, unlike the members of an access panel who
are available to a variety of organizations.
Most research communities are branded. The purpose of these communities is to foster
a conversation between customers and the brand. In these communities, customers are
encouraged to speak to the brand, directly, rather than talking through intermediaries.
Most communities are based on customers, rather than the whole market place. Brands
and customers have a community of interest with each other, and there are many topics
that only customers can speak knowledgeably about.
Not all research communities fit neatly into the categories just described (private,
branded, and customer-based). Some are themed (e.g. looking at a topic such as cooking
or drinking) rather than branded and some are open to everyone rather than recruited
to represent a specific target population. However, the majority of communities are
private, branded, and focused on customers.
Short-term and long-term
Research communities come in both short-term (anything from a few days to a
few weeks) and long-term (typically ongoing and commissioned in multiples of 6–
12 months). Mobile research can be used with both long and short-term communities.

200PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
Most of the notes in this section relate to ongoing communities, as the continuous nature
of these communities can create more issues that need to be monitored and addressed.
MOBILE DEVICES AND COMMUNITIES
Mobile devices can be used by community members to complete research tasks and
also for the management of the community itself. The types of research tasks that
community members may take part in using a mobile device include:
∙
Surveys
∙
Passive data collection approaches
∙
Qualitative research
∙
Multi-stage projects (for example a survey followed by a discussion)
∙
Community/member communications, for example facilitating people signing
up to the community and as a medium for communication with the team
managing the community.
MANAGING MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS
Contact with mobile participants starts with the sign-up process. For most communities,
the main issue is to ensure that members have the choice of using a mobile device or
PC to register. However, if the community members are expected to use their mobile
devices to interact with the community, then the community administrator may require
them to use their device to complete the initial stages, typically registering and taking
part in any initial profiling surveys.
Two key issues that community administrators face with mobile devices and communi-
ties are:
1.Keeping the contact and device details of members up to date. One good tip is
to have an alternative way of contacting members, for example a second email
address or their mobile phone number.
2.Avoiding alienating or annoying members. It is important for researchers to
respect people’s private time and not interrupt or disturb them at the wrong
time of day or too often. Most people keep their mobile devices close at hand
during the night (especially their phone), so messages should not be sent when
the member might be asleep. This means knowing the time zone the members
are in and ideally giving the member an easy option to change their time zone
or to request no contact for a specific period of time (e.g. during a holiday or
work trip). The number and frequency of reminders should be managed to avoid
antagonizing members.

RESEARCH COMMUNITIES201
Members should be offered a variety of ways that they want to be contacted by the
community and of interacting with the community, such as SMS, email, instant messaging,
and social media. Communications should be a combination of push (where a message
is sent to the community member) and pull (where members check to see if there are
any messages).
THE CONTINUOUS NATURE OF COMMUNITIES
The key difference between a research community and an access panel or a customer
list is that a community is part of an ongoing relationship between the researcher
and the member. Access panels and client lists typically are a single interaction
between the researcher and the participant, but a research community is more like
an ongoing discussion. Therefore, it is important that the researcher secures the long-
term cooperation of participants from the beginning of the relationship, even though
this can mean increased complexity by having multiple ways of communicating with
members.
USES OF MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH WITH A
RESEARCH COMMUNITY
This section of the chapter briefly outlines the main uses of mobile market research in
the context of research communities.
Mobile quantitative research
Mobile devices can be used for both active and passive quantitative market research.
Because community members tend to have a good relationship with their community,
it is often easier (compared with ad hoc samples) to find people willing to download
apps or to take part in more invasive types of research, such as tracking their mobile
device usage.
In terms of surveys, the ongoing relationship between the brand, the researcher, and
members makes it easier to break a study into several parts and easier to draw on
previously stored information, which helps produce shorter surveys.
Mobile qualitative research
A wide range of qualitative exercises are conducted with community members, includ-
ing:
∙
Online discussions
∙
Online focus groups

202PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
∙
Collection of ethnographic information
∙
Capturing images and photos.
When designing a research project, the researcher should determine whether a project
is mobile only, or whether the participants in mobile qualitative research projects should
have a choice of device on which to complete the exercises, including phones, phablets,
tablets, and also PCs.
Because researchers have an ongoing link to community members and links to past
responses, qualitative research projects can be targeted at specific people or groups of
people. These could be people who have particular behaviours or needs, who have
expressed specific views, or whose previous responses require clarification. The anal-
ysis of the qualitative information can draw on information collected during previous
research projects.
Mixed-mode studies
A large proportion of mobile research projects, particularly surveys, are mixed-mode
projects. This includes intentional and unintentional mixed-mode research. In online
mixed-mode research the researcher makes surveys available to community members
using a platform that supports a range of devices, typically PCs, tablets, and smartphones.
More information about mixed-mode studies, and the potential impact on data, can be
found in the chapter focusing on mixed-mode research.
Engagement activities
The management of research communities tends to include a range of engagement
activities. Sometimes these engagement activities may address a real research need,
but part or all of their rationale is to provide tasks to the members that are fun, chal-
lenging, interesting, or simply different. There is a widespread view that engaging com-
munity members results in higher levels of cooperation and lower levels of churn or
turnover. Mobile devices are particularly suitable for these engagement exercises. Exam-
ples include the collection of audio-visual diaries, images of meals, or tracking members’
geo-location.
However, the most important element of engagement is to make sure the members
know they are having an impact on products and services. This means listening to a
member, acting on the insight gathered, and closing the feedback loop.
Communications
Communications include updates, queries, support, and reminders. A mobile strategy
should include a variety of methods of communication, often including voice as well as
email, IM, and SMS.

PANELS VERSUS LISTS VERSUS COMMUNITIES203
PANELS VERSUS LISTS VERSUS COMMUNITIES
This chapter has covered three methods for contacting and communicating with market
research participants. Each method has its comparative strengths and weaknesses and
these are summarized in Table 13.1.
Table 13.1  Strengths and weaknesses of methods for contacting and communicating
with market research participants
Strengths for mobile researchWeaknesses for mobile research
Access
panel
A large part of the work is done by the
panel company, who should be
experienced, skilled, and efficient in
the area.
Online access panels are globally the
leading method of conducting market
research, so their use for mobile
research adds credibility.
Samples can be selected on a wide
range of background variables, such as
age, gender, location, and potentially:
income, topics of interest, types of
phone etc.
The research is based on people who
have joined a panel and who are used
to being paid. This means the sample
is potentially a skewed sample and
drawn from a potentially skewed
group.
If the panel is an online access panel,
and if mobile usage is more
widespread than internet usage, then
the sample will be skewed.
The cost can be too high for surveys
with very large numbers (tens of
thousands or more) of participants,
even if the survey length is very short.
Client listIf the client’s list is comprehensive,
then it can be a good source of
customers for research.
The researcher can leverage the client’s
positive relationship with customers to
increase cooperation rates.
Can be the lowest cost of all the
options.
The list, typically, only includes
customers and does not cover the
whole market.
If the client’s list only covers some
types of customer, then results may be
skewed.
Care needs to be taken to draw an
appropriate sample.
Client lists are sometimes out of date
and may need to be verified/
updated first.
Research
community
Deep profiles of users are usually
available.
A high level of cooperation is typical,
which facilitates a wide range of active
and passive quantitative research and
synchronous and asynchronous
qualitative research.
The use of mobile devices supports the
communication strategy of the
community and can enable the
researcher to get closer to the
member’s day-to-day life.
Only represents the market to the
extent the community represents the
market.
Adding mobile communications and
research to a community typically
increases the costs of running the
community due to more queries, more
data, and greater diversity of data.

204PANELS, LISTS, AND COMMUNITIES
The two key dimensions of difference amongst these are ownership and specificity
to research. In terms of the ownership dimension: a client list is owned by the client
company; a research community is typically owned by the client, but often managed by
a third party; and an access panel is owned by a third party.
Online access panels and research communities are specific to market research, i.e. they
are not used for other purposes, such as marketing. Client lists often have more uses,
beyond market research. The primary uses of client lists tend to be focused on com-
mercial activities, such as service delivery and marketing activities such as: promotions,
sales, loyalty and rewards programmes, and so on.
ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF RESEARCH PARTICIPANTS
This chapter has described the use of access panels, client lists, and research commu-
nities for mobile market research. The common element among these three sample
sources is that they are all based on existing collections of people, although each has a
number of distinct differences.
There are a range of alternative methods to find and recruit participants for mobile
market research, including:
∙
QR codes and/or short URLs (for example, in conjunction with print and out-
door advertising, in-store and point of sale initiatives, and requests on sales
receipts)
∙
Social media activities
∙
Online advertising
∙
Mobile advertising
∙
Marketing lists
∙
Face-to-face recruitment
∙
Telephone recruitment.
These and similar alternatives differ quite markedly from the three methods reviewed
in this chapter. In most of these alternatives there are not ongoing relationships, and in
most cases participants’ identities are hard to validate.
SUMMARY
The key innovation that facilitated the growth of online research, from the mid-1990s,
was the emergence and growth of online access panels. It is likely that the continued

SUMMARY205
growth and development of mobile research will depend on the growth of access panels
offering mobile services. Beyond panels, the two major sources of participants for mobile
market research are client lists and research communities.
Key points to consider are:
∙
Access panels have numerous advantages for market researchers, including
not having to handle sample management, incentives, reminders, and so on.
∙
Access panels have traditionally focused on online surveys via PCs, but a grow-
ing number of specifically mobile solutions are being provided.
∙
However, online access panels have had their detractors, in terms of repre-
senting ‘ordinary’ customers, and this will be true of mobile panels too.
∙
Client lists can provide the lowest cost option, in terms of connecting with a
mobile sample, but it can require the greatest amount of work to ensure that
an appropriate sample is used. Additionally, researchers need to verify that
appropriate permissions are in place to use the list for research.
∙
Research communities tend to combine both quantitative and qualitative uses,
and mobile devices can have a vital role in the management of the community
as well as being a mode for conducting market research.
∙
Panels and communities are making it easier to conduct app-based research,
because of their ongoing relationships with members.
∙
Whilst panels, lists, and communities are likely to provide the majority of mobile
quantitative samples, it is likely that traditional recruitment channels will con-
tinue to be important for mobile qualitative market research projects.
∙
Beyond panels, lists, and communities there are a wide range of alternatives,
none of which are major resources, but can be the right solution to a specific
research need.

14
International
Mobile Research
INTRODUCTION
International market research is a category of research that many consider to be a dis-
cipline in its own right. Countries differ in many ways including language, culture, afflu-
ence, and technology, and these differences create issues, problems, and opportunities
for market researchers. International research requires special skills and knowledge, in
addition to those required to conduct research within a researcher’s home market. In
a field like mobile market research, which is still developing and evolving, the challenges
of conducting international projects can be even greater.
The term ‘international research’ used in this book includes: research conducted in a
country other than the researcher’s home country, research conducted in two or more
countries, and research that is conducted in multiple countries.
This chapter focuses on the use of mobile market research in conducting global or
multi-country mobile market research. The reason for this focus is that these are the
harder cases, i.e. the cases where differences are more likely to create issues. A mobile
market research project in, say, the USA and Canada is international, it will throw up
some interesting issues (such as the need to support English and French in Canada), but
the project is less complex than a study with, say, ten very different countries, in regions
as different as Asia, Africa, and Europe.
AN OVERVIEW OF MULTI-COUNTRY
RESEARCH STUDIES
Before looking at the complexities of international mobile market research, it is useful
to consider the issues that make international research special.
GLOBALIZATION
International research has developed in the context of changes in the way busi-
nesses operate, in particular the growth in multi-national businesses and globalization.

AN OVERVIEW OF MULTI-COUNTRY RESEARCH STUDIES207
Globalization has been one of the major trends in markets for the last 20 to 30 years,
driving the growth and prominence of international brands and services, and of multi-
national corporations. In order to market products and services around the globe inter-
national companies need to understand multiple markets, cultures, and people.
With the international marketing of brands and services comes the need for interna-
tional and standardized market research programmes to find insights in different loca-
tions. However, brands often need to balance international standardization with local
preferences, laws, customers, and competitive situations.
International market research seeks to resolve a tension between the standardization of
products and services with the diversity of the people who constitute local markets. For
example, although products may be physically the same in each market, the packaging,
communication, and the relationship they share with consumers is often country specific.
In one country a product may be seen as the height of luxury, in another it might be
seen as just one option amongst many.
MANAGING INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS
Whilst there is no single model that describes all international research projects there
are some patterns that are more common than others. The key patterns are shown in
Table 14.1.
Because international projects are often designed and managed by a lead team, often
based in a single country, the design and management of the study can become quite
separate from some of the markets being researched. Separate in terms of distance,
time zones, and often in terms of language and culture.
Table 14.1  Some approaches for managing international research projects
IssueOptions
Client managementNormally managed and commissioned by a single team,
often through a regional or global insights team.
SupplierThe most common option is to place the contract with a
single agency. However, sometimes a client will place the
contract with multiple agencies, e.g. one per country.
FieldworkSupplied by an agency with operations in each country or
by sub-contractors or by an international fieldwork provider.
Project designTypically designed by the lead team, often a combination of
the client and agency lead teams.

208INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
Table 14.2  Implementing a multi-country market research study
StepsOverviewDescription
1Objective
∙
Client defines the insights required, i.e. the business
and research objectives.
2Brief
∙
Research brief is prepared, outlining the key project
specifications, often including: countries, languages,
sample sizes, methods, and deliverables.
∙
The brief usually specifies key parameters, such as the
time available for the project.
∙
The brief may also detail benchmarks or action
standards that the research will be compared with.
3Design
∙
A research agency is appointed to design, manage, and
implement the research, often in conjunction with the
client.
∙
Define items such as the countries, target respondents,
data collection methods, sample sources, and the
questionnaire.
∙
For each country, the design is expanded to include
languages, translations, and any special/local
considerations.
4Data Collection
∙
The data collection is conducted by the research
agency, often in conjunction with teams from each
country, or via third parties such as access panels or
fieldwork companies.
5Insight and
Analysis
∙
Agency conducts the analysis, seeking to identify the
big picture across the countries, and the important
differences between them.
∙
If the research is quantitative, then the analysis is
typically conducted centrally.
∙
If the research is qualitative then there is often a need
for the analysis to involve the central and local teams.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The key steps in implementing a multi-country market research study, in terms of a
single client working with a single lead agency, are described in Table 14.2.
DIFFERENT COUNTRIES, DIFFERENT MODES
In multi-country projects the methods used for data collection may vary from one coun-
try to another. For example, the data collection mode might be mobile in one group of
countries, CATI in another group, and face-to-face in others. This is because, often, no

AN OVERVIEW OF MULTI-COUNTRY RESEARCH STUDIES209
single mode is available in every country, and even where it is available, it is not always
cost-efficient. For example, in-home face-to-face interviews are rare in the US, online is
rarely appropriate in Mexico, and CATI is usually not suitable in Bangladesh.
However, if a relatively inexpensive and fast mode of data collection is available in each
market for a specific research project, then it will tend to be the preferred option. For
example, a research project in the USA, UK, Australia, and Germany is likely to be
conducted via online panels. Which, as has been mentioned before, is likely to mean
that large numbers of the participants will use mobile devices to take part.
A multi-country mobile market research project may need to utilize different mobile
devices in different markets. For example, smartphones and tablets might be used for
the project in the more advanced markets, such as Singapore. However, feature phones
might be used in less developed markets, where smartphones are less common, internet
connections less widely available, and data contracts are expensive.
KEY ISSUES IN INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH
Amongst the issues that need to be identified and clarified in international research
are:
∙
What local factors will shape the research being conducted? These factors will
include the technology available, the sample options, and expectations in terms
of things like incentives.
∙
What local regulations/laws could impact the research design and implemen-
tation? For example, data privacy laws can limit what can be collected and
dialling rules can limit how mobile phones are called.
∙
Is the project going to be managed and debriefed centrally or will the client’s
local teams be involved in the management or debriefs?
∙
What translations are needed and how are they going to be handled? When
using new technologies, such as smartphones and tablets, it is important that
translations use contemporary language, which usually requires translations
being conducted by people who are in the country and familiar with the
technology.
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL
QUALITATIVE RESEARCH
If multiple languages are going to be used to implement the project, then there are
a number of issues that relate specifically to qualitative projects. This is because the

210INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
translations often need to be conducted whilst the project is happening, making it more
demanding, more time consuming, and more expensive. For example:
∙
In a mobile-enabled online focus group, the client and the lead researcher may
want to see translations of the participants’ replies as they are being collected,
to help them suggest further questions and prompts.
∙
In a mobile discussion the participants will be posting replies and expecting
prompt replies from the moderator.
∙
In a mobile ethnography project the researcher will need to monitor what
people are collecting and ask for further information as needed.
In a quantitative project, the most common approach is to manage the project centrally,
especially if international access panels are being used. The most common pattern is for
all the questionnaires to be translated at the start of the project, and all the open-ends
dealt with at the end of the project, creating just two points where translations are
relevant (other than handling any logistical and technical problems that occur during the
project).
In international qualitative projects, the translations take place at the start (e.g. to create
the discussion guide), and at the end (to aid the analysis), but translations are also needed
throughout the project. In qualitative projects, the balance between central management
and devolved management is less clear and there is less agreement. Some projects seek
to control everything centrally, employing translators or multi-lingual researchers, whilst
other recruit local researchers to localize a research plan and often to conduct the first
stage of the analysis.
More information about qualitative research is available in Chapters 4, 5, and 6 that look
specifically at qualitative research.
DESIGNING MULTI-COUNTRY MOBILE PROJECTS
Whilst one of the most exciting parts of being involved in multi-country market research
projects is analysing the diversity of opinions and insights, the implementation of a project
can be challenging and often throws up unexpected problems. Multi-country mobile
market research projects go through the same processes as most other types of multi-
country studies, but with the additional complexities created by using a mode that
is neither mature nor internationally consistent in its form and application. Key issues
include:
∙
Differences in the sorts of mobile devices available
∙
Differences in the availability of reliable and affordable internet connections

DESIGNING MULTI-COUNTRY MOBILE PROJECTS211
∙
Differences in the ability of research software platforms to handle variations
in languages and scripts
∙
Differences in the market research infrastructure to handle mobile data col-
lection.
The next section offers a step-by-step discussion of how the international issues facing
a mobile market research project can be addressed.
WHY IS THE PROJECT USING MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH?
There are several reasons why a project might be using mobile market research, includ-
ing such things as conducting research-on-research, or to pilot a new method, but there
are two core reasons for choosing mobile:
1.The nature of the research requires mobile approach, for example to conduct
an ‘in the moment’ study as people are going about their lives.
2.Mobile is felt to deliver the best combination of quality, price, and speed.
The reasons why a project has been deemed to require a mobile approach are impor-
tant as they will help determine the answer to some of the other key questions. For
example, if mobile research is not an option in one country, should the country be
dropped from the project or should the method be changed?
WHAT COUNTRIES ARE GOING TO BE RESEARCHED?
Although identifying the countries that the research should cover is one of the first
steps, researchers should be aware this is often a decision that is changed. Countries are
sometimes removed from the research project if they are too expensive, too difficult,
or if conducting research in a country is likely to take too long. Countries are also added
if stakeholders within the client company press for them.
For each country the mobile ecosystem should be assessed along with normal factors
to consider, including:
∙
The types of mobile devices that research participants are likely to use. Includ-
ing phones versus tablets, feature phones versus smartphones, and operating
systems.
∙
If the internet is going to be used, what is the coverage of the internet like,
for example is mobile internet common, or should the research assume that
participants will need to be in a Wi-Fi zone to be able to connect?

212INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
∙
If the research is not going to be based on internet-enabled phones,
what specification of phone is needed and what is the incidence of those
phones?
As well as published data, local offices and fieldwork partners can help answer these
questions. Characteristics such as rural versus urban, economic status, and age are often
good indicators of the type of mobile devices one might expect to find within the
target population. In a few markets literacy is an issue that should be checked, especially
before deciding to use a self-completion mobile mode. Some researchers have found
that mobile familiarity helps them conduct research with participants who have limited
formal literacy (Williams 2014a).
IS MOBILE A VIABLE OPTION?
It is important to identify as quickly as possible whether mobile is a viable option for
the research. If the answer is ‘yes’, then the question shifts to which mobile channels
are the best for the study, for example SMS, downloadable app, or browser-based. It
should be noted that even if mobile is viable, it might not be the best option.
In a perfect solution the same mobile approach will be used in each country, but this
is not always possible. So, the second part of this question is to identify what sort of
mobile options are available in each country. Even within a single region, for example
South-East Asia, different methods might be needed in advanced markets like Korea
and Singapore, than in less developed markets like Cambodia and Myanmar.
UNDERSTANDING THE MOBILE RESEARCH LANDSCAPE
In designing a mobile market research study, the following information should be
assessed for each country:
∙
The penetration of mobile devices within the target groups.
∙
The types of mobile devices being used and their capabilities.
∙
The relevant functions (e.g. text messaging, email, game playing, banking, etc.)
used by the target population on their mobile devices.
∙
The cost and quality of mobile data networks. For example, is the network fast
enough to support the streaming of videos, is the network reliable, and is the
network affordable?
∙
The type of mobile networks on offer. For example, some countries have
proprietary networks that require some solutions to be tailored in order to
work.

IMPLEMENTING INTERNATIONAL MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH PROJECTS213
∙
The speed of internet connections if the internet is part of the mobile solution.
This issue is broader than just network coverage and reliability, it can also
relate to where the servers for a project are hosted. For example, servers
based outside China can behave very sluggishly, whereas local servers can be
very fast.
∙
Localization and translation issues. The mobile market research approach
being used should be delivered in the local language, or languages. This does
not just mean translating the survey, it means support, training, and error
handling should all be localized too.
IMPLEMENTING INTERNATIONAL MOBILE MARKET
RESEARCH PROJECTS
Implementing an international market research project, including mobile ones, involves
more elements than a project limited to a single country. This section looks at some of
the key issues that a researcher managing an international mobile market project should
keep in mind.
LOCALIZING THE RESEARCH
In most cases, an international market research project will be developed in one lan-
guage, often for a single market, and then localized for the other countries. In this case
localizing includes translating the questionnaire, adding in local brands and contexts, and
testing locally.
In the context of a mobile market research project, this localizing might also include
catering for different mobile devices, different operating systems, and different internet
and mobile networks.
FIELDWORK
A researcher might prefer to complete the fieldwork one country at a time, to enable
local conditions and variations to receive the maximum level of attention. However, in
most projects the fieldwork for all the countries will take place at approximately the
same time. The researcher needs to use all the tools provided by the data collection
system to monitor the fieldwork in each country.
One key issue to determine is how problems with the technology will be dealt with.
Mobile technologies are as likely as any other technology to suffer from occasional

214INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
problems, and dealing with them needs to be factored into the procedures. Questions
to consider include:
∙
If participants have a problem, they will want to be able to ask for help in
their language and expect replies in their language. Will this be provided by
the fieldwork partners, by a third party, or by the lead agency?
∙
If some aspect of the technology fails, for example if there are problems
uploading images from a specific brand of mobile device, who has the local
technical knowledge to solve the problem?
Key issues to watch out for in a mobile study are differences between the countries
in terms of dropout rates, differences in the average survey completion time, and the
integrity of paradata items such as location of the surveys and time of day.
CREATING A SINGLE DATASET
Unless the mobile data has been collected via an online research platform linked to
an international server, the data from the project needs to be gathered together and
transferred to the researcher. This should be the responsibility of the local partner and
the process will depend upon local circumstances.
Some of the options that are used, in different parts of the world, and with different
projects include:
∙
Asking participants (or interviewers) to go to a location with Wi-Fi to upload
the results.
∙
Participants returning the mobile devices to the local partner who uploads the
data from the phone or tablet.
∙
The local partner visiting the research participants and collecting the informa-
tion, using data transfer methods such as cables or Bluetooth.
The process for gathering and transmitting the data should be agreed before the project
starts. Clear specifications should be provided to all local partners before the start of the
project that only clean, acceptable data is delivered. It is important that the data is fully
secured; it should be password protected and access limited to authorized personnel
only. All local and international laws and rules about data transfer must be adhered to.
DATA ANALYSIS
Multi-country studies usually produce separate datasets, each with their own idiosyn-
crasies that need to be considered when conducting the analysis. Many researchers

BUILDING AN INTERNATIONAL MOBILE MARKET RESEARCH SOLUTION215
have their own approaches to analysing data, including international data, however, a
common process is:
1.Check the integrity of the data. For example, does anything look wrong? Do
some interviews need removing, replacing, standardizing, and so on?
2.Analyse the data to find the big picture, the messages that are consistent, or at
least dominant, in the data across the countries.
3.Identify the material differences in the data, including those relating to countries.
4.Take the information gathered and create business insights, typically by answering
the business and research questions that were specified at the start of the project.
The items listed here apply to all data collection modes. In terms of a mobile market
research project the researcher should be looking for any effects caused by the data
collection method, especially if the mode varied from country to country. If smartphones
were used by some participants and feature phones were used by others, the researcher
should investigate and understand any differences.
In an international project, any differences caused by modes can be strongly correlated
with country differences. For example, if smartphones are mostly used in rich countries,
and feature phones are mostly used in poorer countries, there may be differences in the
data, but they are more likely to be due to inter-country differences than differences
between the ways the phones have been used to collect data.
THE DEBRIEF, REPORT, OR PRESENTATION
When mobile market research has been used, it is often useful to describe how the use
of mobile may have influenced (hopefully positively) the findings produced.
Because mobile market research is still relatively rare, researcher should be prepared to
explain and (and sometimes defend) the method and the mode more than might be
the case with a more established data collection modality. For example, by preparing
and having available a summary of why mobile research was selected and what it has
helped contribute to the findings.
BUILDING AN INTERNATIONAL MOBILE MARKET
RESEARCH SOLUTION
The majority of international mobile market research projects use a commercially avail-
able software platform and often conduct their fieldwork via access panels, especially for
quantitative research. However, some projects require customized or ad hoc solutions.

216INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
In this context, ‘customized or ad hoc’ can mean one or more of the following:
∙
Using a software platform that has not been used in that country before.
∙
Recruiting mobile respondents who have not taken part in mobile research
before.
∙
Modifying a software solution to achieve a specific aim.
One of the most common examples of this situation is when conducting a qualitative
ethnographic or mobile diary project. The software platform might be from one of the
leading providers, but the sample may be recruited and supported by an agency that
has not used that platform before, and the research participants may not have taken
part in mobile research before.
SELECTING A MOBILE TECHNOLOGY AND
TECHNOLOGY PARTNER
If a research project is more complex than working with an international provider of
services (e.g. the international access panels) and a standard research platform, then the
researcher will need to select the mobile technology and a technology partner.
For example, if the project requires the local recruitment of participants and the use of
apps downloaded onto participants’ phones, the choice of technology and technology
partner is likely to determine the success of the project. Not all research suppliers have
the technical expertise required to run a complex mobile market research project.
Similarly, technology companies that build mobile market research tools may lack the
experience and know-how to design and deliver a market research project in the target
countries.
It is important that the researcher delivering the service to the end-client is comfort-
able with the capabilities of the technology and any technology partners to deliver the
research. The mobile technology partner in turn needs to be able to clearly communi-
cate to the researcher and research teams the risks as well as the benefits that come with
using a specific mobile market research solution. A checklist for evaluating technologies
and technology partners is shown in Table 14.3.
SELECTING LOCAL PARTNERS
If the fieldwork is not being sub-contracted to an international panel or fieldwork orga-
nization, then local partners are likely to be required, especially if the mobile solution
requires local recruitment, briefings, and/or support.

GLOBAL DIVERSITY IN THE MOBILE LANDSCAPE217
Table 14.3  A checklist for evaluating technologies and technology partners
TopicIssues
Experience of market researchA supplier with great mobile technology, but little
experience of market research can be a problem, no matter
how good they are in areas like sales leads or gaming.
Experience of the specific
proposed mobile channel
For example SMS, apps, WAP, or HTML5.
Mobile experience in the target
countries
Somebody on the project needs to know about each
market; if that is not the researcher, it needs to be the
technology partner.
Familiarity with the different
languages being used
This is especially important if the languages include
double-byte languages (e.g. Japanese), and/or right-to-left
scripts (e.g. Arabic).
Understanding of the project
parameters
Does the partner understand and sign up to the project’s
timelines, costs, and deliverables?
Respondent briefingsIf the research participants will need to be briefed and
supported, does the partner have the experience and
capacity?
Laws and market research codes
of conducts
Does the proposed partner understand what can and can’t
be done with market research data?
Monitoring servicesDo the technology and the technology partner provide
monitoring services to the researcher? For example does it
have a dashboard showing fieldwork progress?
Some of the key responsibilities of a local partner are shown in Table 14.4.
GLOBAL DIVERSITY IN THE MOBILE LANDSCAPE
This section provides a brief snapshot of the mobile landscape that researchers con-
ducting international mobile market research projects will encounter.
THE UBIQUITY OF MOBILE PHONES
At the time this book was written there were about seven billion mobile devices in
use globally. Which means there are approximately as many mobile devices around the
world as people. However, this does not mean that everyone had a mobile phone by
the end of 2014. This is simply because some people have two or more devices whilst
others have none.

218INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
Table 14.4  Key responsibilities of a local partner
ResponsibilityDescription
RecruitmentUnless participants for a project are recruited by the client (e.g.
from client lists) or from an international panel organization, then
a local partner can ensure a higher standard of recruitment. This is
particularly true if in-person recruiting is being used. Partners
with knowledge of the local options, customs, and rules can make
a major difference to the project.
Fieldwork monitoring
and quality control
The need for a local team is particularly important in projects such
as a mobile diary project, where participants might be supplied
with a product, asked to download an app, and record their
experiences on a daily basis for two weeks.
Motivating participantsResearchers need to ensure that the demands being made on
participants are reasonable, whilst at the same time motivating
participants to complete assigned tasks. A local partner can be
helpful in establishing boundaries between what is reasonable and
what is not, and in employing locally accepted methods of
ensuring project completion.
Replacement and
dropout management
Local partners can use motivation to reduce dropouts and handle
participant replacement.
Data integrityStandards of what is considered acceptable in terms of data
integrity and quality can vary from country to country. A good
local partner will understand local perceptions and your
requirements.
Local input to the
analysis and debriefing
A local partner can provide useful feedback on how local
conditions might have impacted data collection, which can help
interpret the findings. A local partner is usually a good sounding
board for creating a useful debrief that is likely to deliver insights
as well as information.
What is becoming clear is that soon every economically active adult who wants a mobile
phone will have one (plus plenty of other people too). The trend is towards smart-
phones, and the growth of tablets and phablets is strong.
The high incidence of mobile phones can make data collection via mobile devices a
better option than either data collection using online via PCs or CATI to landlines.
MOBILE DIVERSITY
Even though most people have a mobile device, the challenges of diversity and mobile
network fragmentation remain an issue. People use mobile devices differently, across
different geographies, and within individual markets.

GLOBAL DIVERSITY IN THE MOBILE LANDSCAPE219
Some of these differences relate to owning different devices, for example feature
phones, smartphones, phablets, and tablets. However, other differences relate to what
people do with their phones. Some users download hundreds of apps, others use just
those that came with the phone; some use their phone as a camera, others don’t; some
just use their tablet to read eBooks while others use it as their main IT device.
It should be noted that changes do not always flow from the most developed markets
to the less developed. For example, mobile payments and banking are widely used in
large parts of Africa, but are much less developed in Europe and North America.
TECHNOLOGY, SERVICE, AND USAGE DIFFERENCES
Some of differences between countries, in terms of technology, services, and usage, are
highlighted in the sections that follow.
SMS
SMS, or text messaging, is a widely utilized service in all markets. In developing markets,
the SMS share of all phone usage tends to be higher than in the more developed
markets, because fewer alternatives are available and/or affordable. One of the key
reasons for the strength of SMS is that it is an alternative to more expensive mobile
uses, such as voice calls or emails.
SMS is particularly strong amongst younger people, in both developed and less devel-
oped markets, but its dominance may be challenged by the growth in messaging apps,
such as WeChat and WhatsApp.
The main advantage of SMS, for market research, is that it is available to almost all phone
users, everywhere in the world. The main downside to SMS is that it is a very limited
mode, in terms of the numbers and types of questions that can be asked. Another
text-based protocol that is used in some countries is USSD.
Mobile banking and payments
The absence of comprehensive banking services in many developing countries and the
need to handle very small sums of money have given rise to innovative alternatives, in
particular, using mobile devices to execute financial transactions. For example, in East
Africa, mobile operators run a service, started in Kenya, called M-Pesa to deliver money
to anyone with a mobile phone via SMS. In Kenya M-Pesa transferred the equivalent
of 31% of Kenya’s GDP, according to a report in theFinancial Timesin 2013 (Manson
2013).
M-Pesa gives access to financial transfer services to people who don’t have access to
banks and to those who don’t have sufficient funds to maintain or to pay service charges.

220INTERNATIONAL MOBILE RESEARCH
M-Pesa is also credited with the continued and phenomenal growth of mobile access
across Africa.
Social messaging applications
Declining data package costs across mobile networks and across the globe are resulting
in a steady rise in the use of mobile applications like WeChat and WhatsApp that allow
SMS-like connectivity to others who have the application on their phones. Addition-
ally, they allow for exchange of multimedia, such as photos and videos, adding another
dimension to social messaging.
Growth of services like WeChat has been rapid, withThe Economist(2014) reporting
in January 2014 that WeChat had over 270 million active members in China alone, with
others reporting 400 million as the global figure. It is possible that messaging apps will
shift the balance of usage away from services like SMS and from social networks like
Twitter and Facebook.
Social media channels
Many of the successful online social channels, like Facebook, Twitter, Ren Ren, and
Weibo, allow users to access these social networking services from either PCs or mobile
devices. Different demographic groups and people from different countries appear to
have different habits and preferences. These differences include the way that mobile
devices are used with social media channels.
Differences in network infrastructures
Differences in networks arise from two key reasons: either because a network is at a
different level of development (e.g. Korea and Singapore are ahead of most countries,
whilst Myanmar and Ethiopia are less advanced), or because of specific local decisions
(e.g. internet censorship in Cuba and Kuwait).
The most significant difference, because of the size of the market, is China. Restrictions
on social networks such as Facebook and Twitter have helped develop local alternatives
such as Ren Ren and Weibo. One key factor for market researchers is the so-called
‘great firewall of China’. One consequence of the firewall is that servers based outside
China tend to perform very slowly for participants based in China.
SUMMARY
International market research is a major component of global market research spend
and it is not surprising that the mobile mode is of growing interest. However, there

SUMMARY221
are several challenges in conducting multi-country mobile market research, with the key
ones being:
∙
The differing levels of development in the mobile ecosystem in different coun-
tries. For example, smartphones might be common in one country, but rela-
tively rare in another.
∙
The existing structure of research modes differs by country, for example the
more developed markets have online as the most frequently used mode, in the
less developed markets CATI or face-to-face are more common. When mobile
is added to the mix, the existing research structure has an effect.
∙
In developing markets one of the key roles for mobile market research is in
improving the quality and timeliness of face-to-face research, something that
online had already largely done in the developed markets.
∙
Conducting international mobile market research (other than via unintentional
mobile as part of using international online panels) requires the research team
to be competent with both mobile research and international research.
∙
If the research uses custom or non-standard elements the researcher will need
to select an appropriate technology partner and in most cases a local fieldwork
partner too.
∙
The global direction of travel appears to be towards every customer owning a
phone, and increasingly a smartphone. This suggests that mobile international
research could, within a few years, be the mode that is the most consistent,
from one country to another.



PART IV
Researching the Mobile
Ecosystem, Ethics,
and the Future
This final part of the book is intended as a reference section and a guide.
Researching the Mobile Ecosystem is a resource for anybody wanting to con-
duct research into areas like mobile advertising and gives an additional per-
spective on the technology of mobile devices and mobile market research.
The Ethics and Evolving Picture chapters provide a guide on how mobile
market research should be conducted and glimpse into what might be coming
next, whilst the Research-on-Research chapter summarizes the research that
has been accessed in creating this book
Part IV covers:
15.Researching the Mobile Ecosystem
16.Ethics, Laws, and Guidelines
17.Research-on-Research
18.The Evolving Picture



15
Researching
the Mobile
Ecosystem
INTRODUCTION
Throughout the rest of this book the term ‘mobile market research’ has focused on using
mobile devices to conduct or aid existing market research, for example using mobile
market research in concept testing. However, the term ‘mobile market research’ can
also be applied to market research into the mobile ecosystem.
The term ‘mobile ecosystem’ encompasses every aspect of the mobile world,
including:
∙
Devices, such as phones, phablets, and tablets
∙
Telephony and internet services
∙
Operating systems and apps
∙
Mobile shopping and commerce
∙
Mobile marketing and advertising.
The scale of the mobile ecosystem is immense. The world is moving to a point where
every economically active adult who wants a phone has one, and there are already
about 7 billion mobile phones in use. The growth of mobile phones is being followed
by several other adoption waves, including mobile internet, smartphones, tablets, and
mobile social networks.
As well as being immense in terms of the number of people who are using mobile
devices, the mobile ecosystem is immense in terms of service provision, manufacturing,
R&D, finance, shopping, entertainment, and advertising. In December 2013, Forbes’ list
of the World’s Most Valuable Brands had five companies with significant roles in the
mobile ecosystem in its top nine: Apple, Microsoft, Google, Intel, and Samsung – the
other four being Coca-Cola, IBM, McDonald’s, and General Electric.
This chapter starts by reviewing the non-market research approaches to insight gen-
eration that are common in the mobile ecosystem. The chapter then looks at sev-
eral aspects of the mobile ecosystem and considers the extent to which conventional

226RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
research, mobile market research, and other techniques can be combined to support
business decisions.
NON-MARKET RESEARCH OPTIONS
Organizations in the mobile ecosystem employ a wide range of non-market research
techniques to gather data and insights and market researchers need to be aware of
these approaches.
The list that follows includes techniques frequently used in the mobile ecosystem that
are either not typically offered by market researchers or are offered by a range of other
providers as well as market researchers.
∙
Usage data.For example, web logs from online services, telephone usage
from the telcos, and usage information from third-party suppliers.
∙
A/B testing.Testing variants of a product or service in live situations to deter-
mine winners.
∙
Agile development.Launching products into the market quickly and adapt-
ing them in the marketplace, to optimize their appearance or performance.
∙
Crowdsourcing.Using the wider world to help solve problems, including the
use of open-source development and crowdfunding.
∙
Usability testing.Ensuring products and services work properly for their
intended users.
USAGE DATA
The mobile and online worlds create an extensive electronic record of the activity of
users. Accessing a website tells the website owner a large amount about the user, in
terms of: hardware, location, operating system, language the device is using (e.g. English,
French etc.), and it might make an estimate of things like age and gender based on the
sites you visit and the answers you pick. Use a mobile phone and you tell the telco
who you contacted, where you were geographically, how long the contact lasted, what
sort of contact it was (e.g. voice or SMS). Use email, such as Gmail, and you tell the
service provider who you contacted, which of your devices you used, and the content
of your email.
In many fields, market research is used to estimate usage and behaviour, but in the
mobile ecosystem there is often at least one company that can provide this information
without using market research, and provide it in much better detail. For example, a
telco does not need to conduct a survey with a sample of its subscribers to find out

NON-MARKET RESEARCH OPTIONS227
how often they make calls or to work out how many texts they send, and how many
of those texts are to international numbers. Telcos have this information, for each of
their users.
Usage data tends to be better, cheaper, and often quicker than market research for
recording what people did. However, this data is less powerful in working out why
patterns are happening, and it is thought (by some people) to be weak in predicting what
will happen if circumstances change. However, it should be noted that the advocates of
big data and in particular ‘predictive analytics’ believe that it is possible to work out the
answer to ‘what if’ questions, just from usage/behaviour data.
Unique access to usage data
One limitation of usage data is that in most cases only one organization has primary
access to a specific section of usage data. In most cases, no single organization has a
complete usage picture. For example, in a country with two mobile telephone operators,
each will only have access to the usage data for their subscribers, plus some cross-
network traffic information.
The segmented access model appears in many areas of usage data, for example the
owner of a website is the only company that can track the people who visit that site. A
bank has access to the online and mobile banking data and other data from its customers,
but not data about the users of other banks. This segmented access feature of usage
data is one of the reasons why organizations buy data from other sources and conduct
market research to get a whole market picture.
Third-party estimates of usage
A number of organizations have created services and models that allow usage data to be
acquired or estimated. For example, if users can be persuaded to download a tracking
device, such as a useful toolbar, then that service can build a large, but partial picture of
users of other services. For example, Alexa.com offer a toolbar that enables it to collect
website usage data.
Another route to usage information is where the provider of a service buys or uses a
utility from a third party to improve its services, but in turn provides usage data to the
third party. Two examples of this route are Google Analytics and Flurry.
Flurry provide tracking software to app developers to embed in their applications. Each
time the applications are run data is sent to Flurry, who share it with the app developer
and utilize it for their services. Google offer web analytics to websites, which allows
Google to gain a large but partial picture of online and mobile behaviour. In Google’s
case this can be added to any other services, such as search and ad serving, to build a
much larger picture of internet usage patterns.

228RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
Legal implications of usage data
Usage data, whether it is browsing, emailing, mobile, or financial, is controlled by law
in most countries, although the laws tend to vary from one jurisdiction to another.
Because the scale and depth of usage data is a new phenomenon and because the
tools to analyse it and the markets for selling/using it are still developing, the laws are
tending to lag behind the practice.
Most services that track usage data have terms and conditions that tell the user
what is happening and require them to agree to these terms if they want to use the
service. The issue that the courts have with some companies is whether the terms and
conditions are sufficiently prominent and clear.
A/B TESTING
The definition of A/B testing is a developing and evolving one; and it is likely to evolve
and expand further over the next few years. At its heart, A/B testing is based on a very
old principle: create a test where two offers only differ in one detail, present these two
choices to matched but separate groups of people to evaluate, and whichever is the
more popular is the winner.
What makes modern A/B testing different from traditional research is the tendency to
evaluate the options in the real market, rather than with research participants. One high
profile user of A/B testing is Google, who use it to optimize their online services. Google
systematically, and in many cases automatically, select a variable, offer two options, and
count the performance with real users. The winning option becomes part of the system.
Google’s A/B testing is now available to users of some of its systems, such as Google
Analytics. There is also a growing range of companies offering A/B testing systems. Any
service that can be readily tweaked and offered is potentially suitable for A/B testing –
in particular virtual or online services.
The concept of A/B testing has moved well beyond simply testing two options and
assessing the winner, for example:
∙
Many online advertising tools allow the advertiser to submit several variations
and the platform uses an algorithm to adjust which execution is shown most
often and to whom it is shown, to maximize a dependent variable, for example
to maximize click through.
∙
Companies like Phillips have updated their direct mailing research/practice by
developing multiple offers, for example 32 versions of a mailer, employing
research design principles to allow the differences to be assessed. The mailers
are used in the marketplace, with a proportion of the full database, to assess
their performance. The results are used in two ways. Firstly, the winning mailer

NON-MARKET RESEARCH OPTIONS229
is used for the rest of the database. Secondly, the performances of the different
elements are assessed to create predictive analytics for future mailings.
∙
Dynamic pricing models are becoming increasingly common in the virtual and
online world. Prices in real markets, such as stock exchanges, have been based
for many years on dynamic pricing, but now services such as eBay, Betfair, and
Amazon apply differing types of automated price modelling.
∙
Algorithmic bundling and offer development. With virtual products and ser-
vices, the components can be varied to iteratively seek combinations that work
better than others.
The great strength of A/B testing is in the area of small, iterative changes, allowing
organizations to optimize their products, services, and campaigns.
AGILE DEVELOPMENT
Agile development refers to operating in ways where it is easy, quick, and cheap
for the organization to change direction and to modify products and services. One
consequence of agile development is that organizations can try their product or service
in the marketplace, rather than assessing it in advance.
Market research is of particular relevance when the costs of making a product are large,
or where the consequences of launching an unsatisfactory product or service are serious.
But, if products and services can be created easily and the consequences of failure are
low, then ‘try it and see’ can be a better option than classic forms of market research.
Whilst the most obvious place for agile development is in the area of virtual prod-
ucts and services, it is also used in more tangible markets. The move to print on
demand books has reduced the barriers to entry in the book market and facilitated
agile approaches. Don Tapscott and Anthony Williams (2008) in their bookWikinomics:
How Mass Collaboration Changes Everythingtalk about the motorcycle market in China,
which adopted an open-source approach to its design and manufacture of motorcycles,
something which combined agile development and crowdsourcing.
CROWDSOURCING
Crowdsourcing is being used in a wide variety of ways by organizations, and several of
these ways can be seen as an alternative to market research. Key examples of crowd-
sourcing include:
∙
Open source.Systems like Linux and Apache are developed collaboratively
and then made freely available. The priorities for development are determined
by the interaction of individuals and the community, and the success of changes
is determined by a combination of peer review and market adoption.

230RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
∙
Crowdfunding.One way of assessing whether an idea has a good chance
of succeeding is to try and fund it through a crowdfunding platform, such
as Kickstarter. The crowdfunding route can provide feedback, advocates, and
money.
∙
Crowdsourced product development.A great example of crowdsourcing
is the T-shirt company Threadless.com. People who want to be T-shirt designers
upload their designs to the website. Threadless displays these designs to the
people who buy T-shirts and asks which ones people want to buy. The most
popular designs are then manufactured and sold via the website. In this sort of
crowdsourced model there is little need for market research as the audience
get what they want, and the company is not paying for the designs, unless the
designs prove to be successful.
USABILITY TESTING
Some market research companies offer usability testing, but there are a great many
providers of this service who are not market researchers and who do not see themselves
as market researchers. The field of usability testing brings together design, HCI (human
computer interaction), and ergonomics professionals, as well market researchers.
Usability testing for a mobile phone, or a mobile app, or mobile site can include:
∙
Scoring it against legal criteria to make sure it conforms to statutory require-
ments.
∙
Scoring it against design criteria, including criteria such as disability access
guidelines.
∙
User lab testing, where potential users are given access to the product or
service and are closely observed as they use it.
∙
User testing, where potential users are given the product or access to the
service and use it for a period of time, for example two weeks. The usage may
be monitored, there is often a debrief at the end of the usage period (which can
be qualitative, quantitative, or both), and usage data may have been collected
and analysed.
MOBILE DEVICES, SUCH AS PHONES,
PHABLETS, AND TABLETS
The history of mobile devices shows that the same organization can make great deci-
sions on some occasions and really bad decisions on others. The rise and fall of Psion,

MOBILE DEVICES, SUCH AS PHONES, PHABLETS, AND TABLETS231
Nokia, and BlackBerry show the strengths and weaknesses of how product develop-
ment is often conducted in the mobile ecosystem.
In terms of issues such as branding, advertising, and customer satisfaction, the market
research needs for manufacturers and sellers of mobile devices are similar to the needs
of organizations in other sectors.
Two key category specific challenges for mobile device designers and manufacturers
are:
1.What is the right way to offer features, in terms of usability and appeal?
2.What features will the next generation of devices need?
Both of these areas are ones where market research can help, but given the failure of
brands to master either of them, that help will probably only provide part of the answer.
1. THE BEST WAY TO OFFER FEATURES
There is a wide range of ways of assessing this issue, and the right tool will depend on
the situation. Options include:
∙
Assessing usage data, to see how the device is used at the moment. This usage
data can include passive data from the device, diary information, and options
such as eye-tracking.
∙
User labs, where participants are shown prototypes and where they can discuss
and explore how they would use them.
∙
Testing, where participants are given a device to test over a period of time.
∙
Using approaches like insight communities to develop ongoing conversations
about how products are used and how they could be tweaked to make them
better.
2. WHAT FEATURES WILL BE NEEDED IN THE FUTURE?
People are often unable to say how they will react in the future. This is a major problem
for mobile device manufacturers. Major issues over the last few years have included:
∙
The rise of cameras on phones: some brands missed this at the time.
∙
Touchscreens: the early touchscreens were not successful; BlackBerry and
Nokia were too slow to see that the iPhone had changed the game.

232RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
∙
The iPhone/Android smartphone growth story: companies like Nokia and
BlackBerry did not see that a very large part of the phone buying world would
settle, for the time being, on the paradigm of the current smartphone, rejecting
(to a large extent) physical keyboards, other operating systems, styluses, and
so on.
∙
Voice command, which has not yet happened to the degree that was expected.
One of the interesting things about both Nokia and BlackBerry is that before some
recent problems they had got many of the previous big decisions right, both in terms
of things they did pursue, for example, cameras and business email, and things they did
not, such as flip-phones.
The successful cases in mobile devices seem to be based on a combination (a) under-
standing what technology is capable of and where technology is going, (b) the wider
context of people’s needs and lives, not just their articulated demands, and (c) then
making an intuitive jump based on these two inputs. Market research can be used to
help determine which features can be discontinued (although usage data from logs can
often help answer that question too) but its role in assessing the next big thing is much
less proven and reliable.
MOBILE TELEPHONY AND INTERNET SERVICES
Market research for mobile telephone services needs to be constructed in the context
of the information clients already have, in particular the usage data for their subscribers.
Many of the research needs of telephone service providers are the same as for other
service providers, such as brand and advertising tracking, ad testing, pricing research, and
to an extent customer satisfaction.
One of the notable trends in the area of telephone service providers has been the adop-
tion of insight communities as a method of having ongoing dialogues with customers
and of conducting rapid, low cost, often tactical market research.
Because the research is with mobile phone users it is important that market research is
at least platform agnostic (i.e. capable of being answered via PC or an internet-enabled
mobile device), and in many cases, especially outside the most developed markets,
mobile specific.
MOBILE OPERATING SYSTEMS AND APPS
Market research for operating systems and apps has to be conducted in the context of
the following:
∙
The non-market research information available, for example usage and regis-
tration information.

MOBILE SHOPPING AND COMMERCE233
∙
The scope for action for the organization, for example a phone manufacturer
can choose exactly which generation Android to use and which features to
highlight, but is not going to re-write a key feature of Android.
∙
Whether the new product or service can be envisaged by potential users. If
users would struggle to understand how or why they would use it, adopting
agile development might be more helpful than trying to research a hard to
envisage future.
∙
The scale of risk (in terms of investment or in terms of user backlash if the
new service is not right when launched).
The range of companies looking to commission market research into the performance
and opportunities of mobile operating systems is relatively few, but the number look-
ing to understand and research apps is enormous and varied. Banks, retailers, ser-
vice providers, sports, media, and many more are offering apps – and the market
research for each needs to combine knowledge of the sector with knowledge of app
testing.
MOBILE SHOPPING AND COMMERCE
Mobile shopping and commerce borrow heavily from online shopping and commerce,
and are widely offered in two formats, i.e. via browser and online site and via an app.
The key things that market researchers are typically called on to investigate, in the area
of mobile shopping and commerce, are:
∙
Why some customers shop in-store, via catalogues, online, or via mobile.
∙
The attribution of different parts of the marketing mix to mobile sales.
∙
Why some customers use the online version versus the app, and how to per-
suade people to move from one to another.
∙
Why shopping exercises are not being completed, often referred to as aban-
doned shopping carts.
∙
Assessing the usability and technical characteristics of the shopping experience.
∙
Suggesting enhancements to the process.
In assessing these elements, market researchers need to work within the context of the
non-market research inputs that are available, such as usage data, purchase patterns,
and A/B testing. The market research tools that can be used in these situations include
the traditional tools of qualitative research, quantitative research, mystery shopping,
along with the newer mobile approaches, such as utilizing passive data and participant
ethnography.

234RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
MOBILE MARKETING AND ADVERTISING
Mobile marketing and advertising covers all forms of marketing that utilize mobile devices
and mobile channels. These can broadly be broken into two groups: (a) traditional mar-
keting delivered via mobile and (b) new forms of marketing that are pure-play mobile.
An example of extending a traditional campaign to mobile could be to add a QR code
to an existing (traditional) marketing communication. The QR code could link to a game
or engagement exercise, linking to marketing activities or promotions. Or, at a simpler
level, the QR code could direct users to a website or campaign banner, optimized for
viewing on mobile phones.
Pure play mobile campaigns are ones that only exist in mobile. The early versions of
these were simple forms such as SMS messages. More contemporary campaigns include
branded mobile games, where a game is sponsored to promote the brand, or campaigns
delivered via devices like iBeacon.
In countries where more people access the internet via mobiles than via PCs (e.g. Korea
and China) mobile advertising is expected to continue to increase sharply and some
people, like Mary Meeker and Liang Wu, think it may eventually be the medium of
choice (Meeker and Wu 2013).
Mobile advertising tends to be managed through mobile ad networks such as AdMob
(owned by Google), InMobi, and others. Mobile ad networks buy and barter media
inventory from publishers and content providers, including: game manufacturers, mobile
sites, and other mobile content providers. The agencies then resell to those advertisers
looking for mobile media opportunities.
As mobile media users become more sophisticated, mobile media planning and targeting
of consumers is expected to become more accurate and focused. In the online space,
the traditional media model has already been greatly influenced by the features of that
environment. For example, services like Facebook now are considered media platforms,
allowing advertisers to target consumers based on preferences and habits rather than
by demographics. This targeting is different from other traditional media, like TV, where
targeting by demographics has been the norm, and where the focus has been more on
reach and frequency of exposure.
METRICS
Global consumers are increasing in their number, in the time they spend connected to
the mobile ecosystem, and the amount they spend through mobile channels. As a con-
sequence, mobile marketing and mobile advertising budgets are increasing across mobile
device channels. Given the large scale of mobile marketing and advertising, marketers
need to measure the ROI and effectiveness of these mobile marketing and advertising
investments.

MOBILE MARKETING AND ADVERTISING235
Some measurement tools, such as cookie-based tracking and IP tracking, which are com-
monly used to measure the effectiveness of online campaigns, have been replicated to
measure mobile marketing activity. However, given the diversity of mobile approaches
and the existence of some unique elements, mobile market research is evolving
to address the specific information and insight needs that arise from mobile-based
campaigns.
RESEARCHING MOBILE MARKETING AND ADVERTISING
As with other sections in this chapter, discussion of market research in this field starts
by recognizing what is available without market research, in particular:
∙
Exposure.How many people saw the marketing and how many times? This
data will normally include lots of information about dates, times of day, loca-
tions, types of device, operating systems, and so on.
∙
Actions.How many people clicked on links, sent an SMS in reply, checked
in, or whatever other action the campaign was designed to elicit?
∙
Fulfilment.How many people bought, joined, contributed, or did whatever
the end point of the campaign was intended to deliver?
∙
Measures of ROIthat simply link the cost of the marketing or advertising
to those elements of the fulfilment process that can be tracked.
Areas where market research (e.g. quantitative, qualitative, and social media research)
is especially applicable for mobile marketing and mobile advertising include:
∙
Profiling of mobile consumers, to help design and target campaigns.
∙
Measuring usage patterns and trends, to help design and target campaigns.
∙
Pre-testing campaigns, to help optimize and target them.
∙
Measuring and evaluating mobile campaigns and activities in terms of brand
values.
∙
Measuring virality components and the potential for engagement.
∙
Measuring the impact of gamification on a brand, including engagement with
the brand.
∙
Monitoring and reporting on trends and shifts in intentions.
∙
Assessing the impact of changes in devices and device usage on consumer
wants and needs.
∙
Measuring the ROI of marketing and advertising in wider terms than just clicks
and buys.

236RESEARCHING THE MOBILE ECOSYSTEM
One challenge for market research when working with mobile marketing and adver-
tising is that many mobile campaigns are very inexpensive. The cost of an ad and its
deployment can be less than the normal cost for a market research test. This is one of
the reasons why some organizations prefer to try new campaigns, rather than pre-test
them. Market research needs to tackle this challenge in two ways: (a) find cheaper/faster
ways to test mobile campaigns, (b) focus on the bigger picture, to help design multi-
ple executions of a broader theme, where it is the broader theme that is more fully
researched.
Another challenge for market research, in this area, is to combine market research
insights with the outputs from other providers, for example people producing the data
logs, the predictive analytics, and performance statistics. Whilst some market research
providers may have all of these skills in-house, it is likely that partnerships and collabo-
ration will be the norm in the future.
SUMMARY
The mobile ecosystem is already enormous, indeed it touches more people on the
planet that any other modern form of communication and its commercial and social
importance are set to grow rapidly for many years. The growth of the mobile ecosystem
is creating new challenges and opportunities for market researchers.
Key elements to highlight are:
∙
The range of non-market research solutions available in the mobile ecosystem
and the need for market researchers to understand them, not to underestimate
them, and to seek to provide offers that complement them.
∙
In the mobile ecosystem a large amount of data exists that explains what
people are actually doing; the opportunity for market research lies in under-
standing why and what-if.
∙
The complexity created by the diversity of mobile devices needs to be accounted
for in research designs.
∙
The challenges created by the relatively low cost of many forms of mobile
marketing and advertising mean that market researchers need to find research
solutions that are appropriate.
∙
The need to show that there is more to advertising and marketing than clicks,
by showing the value of brand building.

16
Ethics, Laws, and
Guidelines
INTRODUCTION
Ethics are a central tenet of market research, and most chapters in this book have
touched on ethics, along with rules, laws, and guidelines, and the need to gain informed
consent. The core issues relating to mobile market research ethics are similar to the
issues for other forms of market research. However, there are specific considerations
that are either unique to mobile market research or have different characteristics in a
mobile context, and these are the issues reviewed in this chapter.
Specific topics covered include key stakeholders in terms of privacy and ethics, the inter-
play of laws, guidelines, and ethics, and how to conduct ethical mobile market research.
The chapter finishes with a checklist of the key questions that should be addressed.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS IN TERMS OF PRIVACY
AND ETHICS
The key stakeholders in most forms of market research are:
∙
Research participants
∙
Research agencies and their employees
∙
Research clients and users
∙
The market research profession, including the bodies that represent it
∙
Legislators and regulators.
When conducting mobile market research there are additional groups of people who
may need to be considered, for example:
∙
People who might be recorded by the participants in mobile
research studies.For example, people who might be photographed or
videoed during a mobile ethnography project.

238ETHICS, LAWS, AND GUIDELINES
∙
People whose digital details may be accidently or unintentionally
collected by the researcher.For example Bluetooth or Wi-Fi information
might be gathered, by participants or interviewers, about people not partici-
pating in the research.
∙
Mobile service providers.Mobile service providers may have restrictions
relating to how their services can be used.
∙
Owners of locations visited by participants.For example, retailers seek
to control what happens in their stores, schools are often covered by regula-
tions, and airlines often ban the use of electronic devices during take-off and
landing.
THE INTERPLAY OF LAWS, GUIDELINES, AND ETHICS
As with any other form of market research, there is interplay between laws, guidelines,
ethics, and best practice. No single resource can list all the relevant rules and how
they interconnect and any such list would soon be out of date. Researchers need to
make themselves familiar with the ethical and regulatory framework surrounding mobile
market research in the countries in which they are conducting research. The best starting
place is often the local market research organization.
Anyone planning to conduct international mobile market research needs to take advice
about each market where research is proposed. Good sources of advice for interna-
tional projects include colleagues, local agencies, and in particular the national market
research associations, and ESOMAR.
LAWS
Laws are the most important element within the framework of laws, regulations, and
guidelines and usually cover data protections and privacy. In addition, laws often cover
the following:
1.The different ways that a phone can be contacted. For example, some countries
do not allow auto-diallers to be used when contacting mobile phones.
2.Where a phone/camera can or cannot be used. For example, laws may restrict
the use of mobile devices on government property or near airports.
3.The times of day that somebody can be contacted. Many countries have laws
that limit unsolicited calls to specific times of day.
4.The need to respect ‘do not call/contact/email/SMS’ lists. ‘Do not contact’ laws
vary considerably from country to country. Some have exemptions for market

THE INTERPLAY OF LAWS, GUIDELINES, AND ETHICS239
research, and some do not. All contact lists should be checked to see if the
appropriate permissions to call/text/email exist.
5.The sorts of services that can be used, for example, some countries have banned
specific services such as Twitter and Facebook.
6.The collection of passive data. In some countries the collection of traffic and
location data is controlled by legislation.
Whilst laws in some countries are relatively clear and uniformly enforced, in others
they may be unclear or unevenly enforced. In situations where specific mobile laws do
not exist, courts often need to try to retrofit disputes to laws dating back to older
technologies, sometimes even as far back as telegraphy. In locations where the laws are
less defined or effective, guidelines and ethics become even more important.
GUIDELINES
Guidelines are typically rules and advice that market researchers have agreed to as a
condition of membership of a trade body or professional association, or which they
have agreed to without necessarily joining the relevant body. Sometimes guidelines
have the force of law behind them, other guidelines are linked to the potential to be
sanctioned by a relevant body, and other guidelines are simply recommendations. The
ESOMAR/ICC market research guidelines are widely adopted around the world and
are a useful starting point for any market researcher seeking to understand market
research guidelines. ESOMAR (2012a) produces a specific Guideline for Conducting
Mobile Market Research, which is available from www.esomar.org.
When conducting mobile market research, researchers should respect the general
guidelines for market research as well as any specific guidelines for mobile market
research. Researchers should note that the absence of a specific clause in mobile spe-
cific guidelines does not mean it is not covered. For example, if the general guidelines
specify protecting respondent anonymity, it might not be explicitly repeated in the text
of mobile guidelines, because the clause about anonymity in the general guidelines auto-
matically applies.
ETHICS
Laws and guidelines tend to come from external bodies, such as governments and
trade bodies and associations. By contrast, ethics tend to relate to the organization the
researcher is employed by and the individual researcher’s own value structure.
In a fast moving field like mobile market research, ethics become even more important
than in a more stable field. Laws and guidelines, governing the mobile ecosystem, tend

240ETHICS, LAWS, AND GUIDELINES
to lag behind what is technically possible. Until laws and codes catch up with what is
possible, consideration of the ethical issues is the best way for market researchers to do
the right thing, and the best way to stay on the right side of the law and public opinion.
Some organizations, especially academic institutions, have a formal ethical review pro-
cess, but for most market researchers the process is more informal. Researchers should
ask themselves whether their actions would attract criticism or scorn from the general
public, their family, and their peers, if they were to become aware of what the researcher
was doing. If in doubt, don’t – or at least make sure you gain consent.
Often the difference between an ethical project and an unethical one is the quality of
the disclosure and the quality of the informed consent obtained. The key consideration
for market researchers to remember is that just because something is possible, it does
not mean it should be done.
CONDUCTING ETHICAL RESEARCH
The key to conducting ethical research is to be aware of the guidelines and laws, to
consider the issues raised by a specific research project, and to discuss the implications
and best practices with peers. This section covers the key issues that researchers should
consider.
SAFETY CONCERNS
One of the core assumptions of market research is that the participants will not be put at
risk by taking part in the research. One of the eight ‘fundamentals’ of the ESOMAR/ICC
Codes says that respondents shall not be harmed or adversely affected as the direct
result of cooperating in a market research project.
Some of the safety concerns about mobile market research are the same as they would
be for other modes of data collection. For example, not exposing participants to the
risk of fraud or identity theft, or making it more likely they will lose their job. But there
are also concerns that are quite specific to mobile market research, including:
1.Ensuring that the participant is not doing something hazardous, such as driving,
at the same time as taking part in a market research study.
2.Checking that the participant is not likely to be observed while entering sensitive
data into a mobile device. For example, if a respondent is using a tablet on a train,
their responses may be viewable by people sitting near them.
3.Not asking the participant to do things that may be seen as illegal or threatening.
For example, researchers should avoid asking participants to take videos/pictures
of the sensitive parts of airports or of other people’s children.

CONDUCTING ETHICAL RESEARCH241
COSTS AND ANNOYANCE
Not harming the participants means more than just safety issues, it also includes
not inconveniencing them, not costing them money, and not annoying them. Market
researchers should ensure that participants do not incur expenses as a result of tak-
ing part in mobile studies (e.g. data charges). Or, if costs are incurred, the participants
should be compensated or reimbursed.
Researchers need to avoid annoying or distressing people, for example they should
avoid sending SMS messages to a participant’s phone at a time when they may be
sleeping. In a global study, or in a country with multiple time zones, extra steps are
required to ensure that mobile market research does not become a source of annoy-
ance. Similarly, researchers should seek to provide participants with methods of avoiding
being contacted when travelling into other time zones or when on vacation.
PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION
The term ‘personally identifiable data or information’ (often shortened to PID or PII)
includes anything that can identify individuals. Obvious examples of personally identifi-
able data include names, email addresses, and phone numbers. However, less obvious
forms of data, such as photographs of people’s faces or location data showing where
somebody lives, are also personally identifiable data. In many countries the use of per-
sonally identifiable data is governed by data privacy and data protection laws.
When collecting personally identifiable data, researchers need to secure informed con-
sent and follow data protection and privacy rules. Researchers should only collect per-
sonally identifiable data that is needed by the project and for which the participant has
given permission.
PRIVACY CONCERNS
Mobile privacy concerns tend to involve: anonymity, security of participants’ personal
information, and consent.
Market researchers should already be familiar with the need to protect the anonymity
of research participants. However, when using mobile devices, there are a number of
extra ways that anonymity can be compromised. Mobile web browsing records can
identify the participant. Images and recordings on the mobile device may include person-
ally identifiable data. Various codes and information on the phone (including its phone
number) can identify an individual. Even location data can identify people. All of these
routes to compromising participant anonymity need to be addressed by the research
design.

242ETHICS, LAWS, AND GUIDELINES
DATA ABOUT THIRD PARTIES
Mobile phones typically hold personal information about people other than the partic-
ipant. For example, personally identifiable information about third parties can be found
in: contact lists, telephone numbers called, email histories, text messages, calendars, and
in some apps. As a general rule, researchers should not collect information about third
parties without the permission of those whose personal information is accessed. The
core issue is that the research participant may not have the right to give consent to this
third-party information being passed on to the researcher. This is a complicated area and
researchers should seek legal advice before accessing information about third parties.
INFORMED CONSENT
Informed consent is the bedrock of most research and all market research. Researchers
should ensure that each participant understands what data is being collected, what it will
reveal about them, and who it will be shared with. If their device is being recorded, for
example storing GPS, Bluetooth, and web-browsing information, they may not imme-
diately realize how much of their privacy they are sharing.
Informed consent requires that people are fully informed about:
∙
The purpose of the research.
∙
The information to be collected, including passively collected information.
∙
The use to which it will be put. For example, is it market research or does it
include other uses?
∙
Who it will be shared with. For example, will it be shared with other organiza-
tions?
∙
The form in which it will be shared. For example, will only aggregated infor-
mation be shared or will personally identifiable information such as images be
shared?
Informed consent can be especially difficult when collecting data that includes third
parties. If videos and images of people other than the research participant are collected,
then the researcher should have their permission as well, or put procedures in place to
protect their identity (e.g. by pixelating images for their faces).
In order to avoid difficult decisions, a number of researchers have adopted a policy of
not collecting information that is potentially embarrassing. For example, some tracking
software can be set to not record visits to adult entertainment sites; other software can
be set to automatically delete potentially embarrassing information at the early stages
of cleaning/consolidation.

CONDUCTING ETHICAL RESEARCH243
DATA SECURITY ISSUES
The two key elements of data security are keeping data secure from unauthorized
access and safe from becoming corrupt or lost. Personal and sensitive data should be
encrypted; access should be regulated and monitored.
As a general rule, personally identifiable information should not be shared with clients
unless the participant has given explicit permission for it to be shared. Where personally
identifiable information is transferred (with the participants’ permission) to clients, the
client needs to be aware that they are accepting responsibility for protecting the data
with appropriate procedures.
The three key mobile elements of data security are ensuring the device is not lost, not
hacked, and not damaged. In most cases this means ensuring that data is moved from
the mobile device to central servers as promptly as possible and removing data from
the mobile devices as quickly as possible.
IS IT MARKET RESEARCH?
Market researchers are increasingly being called on to use their skills on projects that are
not market research – in terms of what market researchers define as market research.
For example, if a client wants to improve the mobile sign-up process to collect richer
information for their CRM system, a market researcher can use their skills to design a
better set of questions, but this is not market research.
If a project is not market research, the researcher should ensure that it is not called,
or made to appear as, market research and should abide by the relevant laws and
guidelines. ESOMAR (2009) has a ‘Guide on Distinguishing Market Research from Other
Data Collection Activities’ and the UK’s MRS (2010) has a set of guidelines called ‘Using
Research Techniques for Non-Research Purposes’, which discuss this topic.
RESEARCH QUALITY ISSUES
Providers of research need to ensure that the buyers and users of market research are
aware of the confidence they can have in the data collected and conclusions and insights
generated from the data. Methodologies and approaches with a long history, such as
face-to-face surveys or in-person focus groups, tend to have well-understood properties
in terms of the confidence that users can place in the findings. However, in a new and
fast changing field, such as mobile market research, the picture is less settled and clear.
The way market research is conducted has an impact on what is collected. Any new
research method needs to be assessed to identify:
1.How it affects the research process, in comparison with other methods.

244ETHICS, LAWS, AND GUIDELINES
2.Whether the differences between the new and established methods can be
removed.
3.Whether any differences are the result of better data, worse data, different data,
or some combination of better, worse, and different.
4.What ‘new’ types of data are provided by the method, and how this new data
can be utilized.
ETHICS CHECKLIST
No list can be complete or fully up to date, but the checklist in Table 16.1 should be
useful when scoping a mobile market research project, in terms of laws, ethics, and
guidelines:
Table 16.1  Ethics checklist
QuestionComments
Is it legal?Researchers should verify that their mobile research
project complies with the relevant laws in the
countries where they plan to conduct it.
Are you putting participants at risk?Never ask a participant to do something that may be
illegal or potentially put themselves or others at risk.
For example, researchers should check that
participants are not driving a car and should advise
participants not to take pictures or videos of
unsuitable subjects, such as other people’s children or
in areas where photography is prohibited.
Is it market research?If it is not market research, the researcher needs to
ensure that it does not appear to be market research.
Are you collecting personally
identifiable data?
Researchers need to identify what information is
being collected, how permission will be obtained, and
how the data will be protected.
Do you have informed consent from
each participant?
Informed consent depends on sharing enough
information with participants to ensure they can give
informed consent.
Is information being gathered abut
third parties?
If third-party information is being collected, how will
permission be gathered? Or, will the information be
rendered anonymous?
How will you avoid annoying people?Review issues such as time zones to avoid causing
annoyance or distress.
What confidence can the user of the
research have in the findings?
The researcher needs to evaluate the impact of the
mobile method on the research findings and ensure
the client is made aware of the potential impact.

SUMMARY245
SUMMARY
This chapter has highlighted the key issues that market researchers should be aware of,
both in terms of the ethical issues that relate to market research in general and those
that relate specifically to mobile market research. Researchers should stay up to date
with changes in the field and develop their own moral compass (so they instinctively
know right from wrong). They may find a checklist approach to be helpful.

17
Research-on-
Research
INTRODUCTION
Research-on-research, often referred to as RoR, refers to research about the research
process, conducted by research vendors and/or research users. RoR can be similar to,
or overlap with, academic research.
This chapter highlights a number of RoR studies that help illustrate aspects of mobile
market research. The studies in this chapter are referred to in other sections of the
book and inform recommendations made in the book. The authors extend their thanks
to the organizations that have made these studies available.
The notes about each study in this chapter are in a very short format. A fuller com-
mentary on each of these studies, plus a number of additional studies, is available via
the accompanying online site www.handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com. The studies
below are grouped by fieldwork date.
2010
Does Adding One More Question Impact Survey Completion Rate?
(Chudoba 2010)
Meta-analysis of 100 000 online surveys conducted on the SurveyMonkey plat-
form 2009 and 2010, looking at 2000 single question surveys, 2000 two ques-
tion surveys, 2000 three question surveys, and so on up to 2000 50 question
surveys.
This study confirmed that longer surveys lead to more dropouts. The paper high-
lights that from 1 to 15 questions the growth in dropouts is relatively steep. From
16 to 35 questions the increase in the dropout rate slows, and above 30 questions
there is relatively little additional increase in dropouts.

INTRODUCTION247
2011
Differences Between Mobile and PC Responses
(Vision Critical 2014)
This study was conducted in 2011 with a sample of 2025 participants, spread
across the USA, UK, and Canada. The three key findings were that most survey
question types give similar answers on PCs and smartphones, that multi-select
grids tend to give different answers on PC and smartphone, and that smartphone
versions of PC surveys can take 50% longer.
How Much Time Are Respondents Willing to Spend
on Your Survey? (Chudoba 2011)
A meta-analysis of 100 000 online surveys conducted on the SurveyMonkey plat-
form in 2011. The key finding was that respondents spend longer per question
when answering shorter surveys, and less time per question with longer surveys.
This finding supports the suggestion that research participants can sometimes
engage in satisficing, i.e. just doing enough to be able to complete the survey
(Krosnick 2000).
Impact of Survey Length on Responses (Vision Critical 2014)
This study was conducted in 2011 with a sample of 2000 participants spread across
the USA, UK, and Canada. Participants were allocated to a PC or a smartphone
cell and three survey lengths were tested. The longest survey length tested had a
mean completion time of 9.5 minutes.
The two key findings were: (a) forcing participants to respond via mobile reduced
the response rate, and (b) the completion rate for a 9.5 minute survey was the
same as for shorter mobile surveys.
2012
Australian Mobile Test 2012 (Ipsos ASI 2014)
The study was conducted in 2012 to evaluate mobile ad testing in conjunction
with MobileMeasure, using three TV ads with a sample size of approximately 120
participants seeing each ad. The test used a subset of the normal Ipsos ASI test.
For those items included in the mobile test the results were comparable.

248RESEARCH-ON-RESEARCH
Harnessing Mobile Technology to Draw Insights from Health Care
Professionals (Kantar Health 2014)
The study looked at using a mobile survey with 600 US doctors, comparing the
results with a reference study conducted as a conventional online study. The
survey was re-designed for mobile and reduced in length from 45 minutes to
15 minutes.
The three key findings included: (a) the results from the mobile study were com-
parable with the online study, (b) some doctors expressed reluctance at being
allocated to the mobile cell, and (c) the surveys on smartphones took longer than
the same surveys on iPads.
I Would ... But the Data Would be Different (Courtright 2013)
The presentation was based on 30 000 interviews conducted by Research Now
in 2012. The analysis covered multiple countries and compared results from par-
ticipants using PC and mobile. The study showed very comparable responses in
mean responses in attitudes towards sports and in the proportions of participants
choosing to follow the Olympics via different media.
Research Goes Mobile: Findings from Initial Smartphone Application
Research (Dubreuil and Joubert 2012)
This paper reported two separate advertising comparison tests. The first was in
2011 and used a sample of 400 people to evaluate a print ad, the second test was
in 2012 and evaluated two TV ads. Both waves of testing were based on Luma’s
ad+impact test.
The two key findings were: (a) the results for the TV ad were comparable between
PC and mobile, and (b) the print ad results were generally comparable, but the
‘stand out’ score for the print ad was lower for the mobile cell.
The Who, When, Where, and How of Smartphone Research
(Fine and Menictas 2012)
The study comprised 1514 participants in 2011 and a further 640 in 2012, in
Australia. The three key findings were: (a) the mobile responses had a different
demographic profile, (b) after controlling for demographic differences the sur-
vey responses were similar, and (c) the response rates and results for 5, 10, and
15 minute long surveys were similar.

INTRODUCTION249
Touchscreen Devices Versus Non-Touchscreen Devices
(Vision Critical 2014)
The study investigated 902 participants with touchscreen phones and 1115 non-
touchscreen (BlackBerry) users. The three key findings were: (a) the response rate
amongst non-touchscreen users was lower, (b) the non-touchscreen participants
were less happy with the process, and (c) the non-touchscreen users took about
40% longer than the touchscreen users.
Using Dual-Frame Telephone Surveys to Include the ‘Mobile Phone-Only’
Population (Pennay et al. 2013)
This study was conducted as a CATI (telephone) study in Australia in 2012, with a
sample of 2000 people. The key finding, for mobile market research, was that the
profile and responses of people with both a mobile phone and landline differed
depending on whether the interviews were completed on a landline or a mobile
phone.
2013
Can Mobile Web Surveys Be Taken on Computers?
A Discussion on a Multi-Device Survey Design
(de Bruijne and Wijnant 2013)
This study was a two cell study with a sample size of 2722 and was conducted
in The Netherlands. Both cells answered via mix of devices (about 15% using a
mobile device). One cell saw a PC style survey, the other saw the survey config-
ured for mobile devices.
The key findings were that the results were similar, but the mobile version took
slightly longer and was slightly less popular.
GRIT Consumer Participation in Research Report (GreenBook 2013a)
This study reported the findings from using the RIWI method globally in 2013,
utilizing data from about 1.6 million devices. About 19% of the survey invitations
were served to mobile devices, with iOS as the most commonly used operating
system.

250RESEARCH-ON-RESEARCH
Participation of Mobile Users in Online Surveys (Jue and Luck 2014)
This report was based on the surveys delivered by the Decipher platform in 2013,
with the numbers of survey starts varying from 1.5 to 5 million per month. The
key findings included:
1.The number of people using mobile devices to take online surveys has
grown from less than 10% in Q1 2012 to about 20% in Q4 2013.
2.Panel members are less likely to be using mobile devices (7%) and partic-
ipants from client lists are more likely to be using mobile devices (27%).
3.Completion rates are lower for mobile devices (59%) than for PCs (76%),
but Decipher report that well-designed mobile studies do better than this.
4.60% of mobile devices used in Q4 2013 were iOS, 38% Android, with all
other operating systems coming to just 2%.
SUMMARY OF THE RESEARCH-ON-
RESEARCH REVIEWED
The papers reported in this chapter represent an interesting cross-section of research-
on-research in the area of mobile market research. Not all of the findings are in the
same direction, but several key strands suggest themselves as findings that appear to be
consistent:
∙
Adding mobile to online can widen the reach of the research in terms of who
takes part. This means that the data from a mixed-mode study can be more
representative than a study offering fewer choices, but that it can also result
in differences in the results because the sample has changed.
∙
In general the differences in answers resulting from the question being viewed
on a different device are small, although some differences do exist. Questions
that appear to produce similar results include single response questions, multi
response questions, sliders, numeric questions, and simple grids.
∙
Multi-select grids, where the participant can select multiple items per row or
per column in a grid, tend to produce different answers on PCs and smart-
phones, with the mobile participants tending to make more selections.
∙
When a mobile survey is created by taking an online survey and simply render-
ing it for mobile, the average length of interview appears to increase. However,
this increase does not appear to result in lower satisfaction with the survey, or
higher dropout rates, or changes in the data.

SUMMARY OF THE RESEARCH-ON-RESEARCH REVIEWED251
∙
Mobile surveys of up to 15 minutes do not appear to be too long, compared
with online surveys of a similar length.
∙
Forcing participants to use mobile devices, as opposed to offering them a
choice, can result in lower completion rates.
∙
Participants completing a survey on their mobile tend to respond to the survey
invitations faster than those completing it on a PC.
∙
Most participants completing mobile surveys do so from home or the office.
∙
When given the choice to complete a survey on a PC or mobile, more partici-
pants choose PC than mobile, but this may be changing.
∙
Longer surveys result in more dropouts and may encourage satisficing (partici-
pants answering quickly in order to finish the survey with the minimum effort).
∙
Ad tests, particularly TV ads, seem capable of producing similar results between
mobile and PC-based tests. However, print ads may appear to have less impact
on a mobile screen than a PC screen.
A much fuller version of these studies is available online, along with additional studies.
The online material, which includes a longer version of the glossary, can be found at
www.handbookofmobilemarketresearch.com.

18
The Evolving
Picture
INTRODUCTION
The world is moving towards a situation where the vast majority of the world’s
population are likely to own a powerful, internet connected mobile device. Already
most people have a mobile phone and in the developed economies a majority have
a smartphone. Other mobile devices are growing rapidly, from tablets through to
navigation devices to fitness monitors. This is a change in society on a par with the
invention of the printing press, and unlike the printing press its impact is on a truly
global scale.
The world of mobile market research is changing, firstly to catch up with what has
already happened, secondly to embrace current changes, and finally to try to work with
what will come next.
This chapter reviews the evolving picture facing mobile market research by examining
four perspectives:
∙
Technology
∙
Society
∙
Methodology
∙
Practical issues in using emergent mobile technologies.
TECHNOLOGY
As mobile technologies, both hardware and software, continue to evolve, phone calls
have become a smaller and smaller part of what people do with their mobile phone.
Mobile phones have evolved into something like a Swiss Army knife, with manufacturers
and third-party providers adding multiple, often unrelated, tools and apps to products.
Most of these additions remain unused for most people, but a few become runaway
successes.

TECHNOLOGY253
The scale of the challenge of picking winners was shown by a forecast in 2014 by Gartner
that predicted just 1-in-10 000 apps would be considered a financial success by 2018
(Gartner 2014).
This section reviews some of the mobile technologies that are already of interest to
market researchers and some that may be of interest soon
LOCATION-BASED SERVICES
Location-based services (or LBS) have been around for some time and features such
as GPS receivers and apps to utilize GPS information are now common on phones.
As mentioned in The Technology of Mobile Market Research and Utilizing Passive Data
chapters, a variety of location techniques are available and are being developed, including
cell tower tracking, Wi-Fi related systems, NFC, and audio-based tracking.
The potential benefits of using location-based services to monitor consumers’ location
and movements are easy to understand. For example:
1.Knowing the routes that consumers take, either as part of their normal day or
prior to purchasing an item, opens up a wide range of marketing and research
opportunities.
2.Geofencing allows researchers to trigger ‘in the moment’ research activities, for
example a survey, when somebody enters or leaves a specific location, such as
a restaurant or station.
Location-based research is in its infancy, but is widely expected to grow. In terms of the
evolving picture, key issues include:
∙
Strategies for using location based services without draining batteries.
∙
Improving the accuracy of GPS estimates of location.
∙
More innovations in the technologies providing location-based services, for
example short distance Wi-Fi and Apple’s iBeacon to help locate people in
relation to shelves, advertising, point-of-sale promotions.
∙
Improvements in the analysis of routes, particularly in the analysis of large
samples of location/movement data.
∙
Creating larger panels of participants willing to engage in location-based
research projects.
Location-based services raise a number of privacy issues and a number of governments
and regulatory bodies around the world are discussing limitations and restrictions. At the

254THE EVOLVING PICTURE
very least location data is likely to be classed as sensitive personal information. Market
researchers will need to ensure that the concept of informed consent is a major part
of their procedures if they are to minimize potential restrictions.
VOICE SERVICES
Interest in voice-enabled services and speech recognition goes back at least three
decades, but recently has gained the attention of consumers after Apple utilized it in the
form of Siri, the voice-enabled personal assistant. Introduced in 2011, Siri was described
at that time, by some pundits, as being the most important new feature of the iPhone4.
However, once the hype wore off, the limited utility of the feature, at least in its current
form, became apparent.
Given time, voice recognition/activation will become more accurate and may become
a major element in utilizing mobile devices. For example, the default way of operating
Google Glass is via voice commands.
For market researchers, a major aspect of interest in voice services is that they imply
voice recognition, not just audio capture. Responses captured via voice recognition are
stored as digital information, which can be searched and processed in ways that are very
difficult with traditional recordings.
QR (QUICK RESPONSE) CODES
QR codes are usually thought of as two-dimensional barcodes. They were initially used
by the Japanese auto industry, and can encode a wide variety of machine readable
information. Mobile phones can use an app, such as Google Goggles, to process, scan
and interpret QR codes. The user scans the QR code using the device’s camera and
the app determines what action to take.
Figure 18.1 is a QR code. If you have a QR reader on your phone you should find it takes
you to NewMR.org. If you don’t have a QR code reader, then you can try downloading
Google Goggles, which is one of many apps capable of reading QR codes.
In terms of market research, QR codes can be used to trigger a survey, share informa-
tion, or download mobile apps and content to a consumer’s phone. When QR codes
first appeared, a few years ago, they were hailed as the ‘next big thing’, with their sup-
porters claiming they would make it much easier to reach consumers. The outcome
has been much less useful from a market research point of view, at least in the West.
MarketingCharts.com compiled a selection of reports, which indicated that in the US
about 10% of smartphone users regularly scanned a code, and about 20–25% had done
so in the last few months (Marketing Charts Staff 2013).

TECHNOLOGY255
Figure 18.1Example of a QR Code
However, QR codes have been successful in places like China, where WeChat makes
use of QR codes to simplify entering contact information, and there have been successful
campaigns in the West when the campaign was well designed.
QR codes are an interesting technology for market researchers to keep an eye on. The
technology works, is very low cost, and the only thing holding it back in the West is that
consumers have not found a good enough reason to use it. All of that could change if
one of the leading online services were to give people a reason to use it.
MOBILE 3D ANIMATION
Mobile 3D animation is a widely utilized technology in the mobile gaming industry and
is a readily available service.
Currently, 3D animation is not widely used in market research. However, it is a service
with considerable potential. For example, mobile 3D animation could be used to allow
users to get a better representation of products, both for existing products and products
at the design stage.
The key difference between gaming and mobile market research is that in gaming a 3D
animation can be created once and used many times, but in mobile market research,
most projects are ad hoc, so the costs for a specific 3D animation often have to be
recovered from a single project. For this approach to have major market research appli-
cations the cost of creating animations needs to fall, or reusable applications need to
be found.
USING SOUND IN RESEARCH
There are a number of approaches being explored that utilize sound for research pur-
poses, for example audio signature and sound location.

256THE EVOLVING PICTURE
Audio signature for advertising reach measurement
Audio signature is highly experimental and still in its infancy, but it has been explored by
a number of researchers in the past few years. All audio and audio-visual ads have a dis-
tinct digital audio signature. A mobile device embedded with an audio signature reader
and the appropriate software is capable of identifying the advertisements a research
participant is exposed to during their day. The use of mobile devices in this way holds
the prospect of better measures of reach, broader samples, and adding location and
behaviour tracking.
Sound location
With a suitable app, non-audible sound signals can be used to record the phone’s loca-
tion, a technology sometimes referred to as sound beacons. For example ShopKick and
Sonic Notify use high frequency signals to tell the phone that they have walked into a
participating store, or that they are in a specific part of the store. This information can
be used by the app to gain shopping coupons or to receive a message from the store.
Sound beacons can be placed around a store (in the way iBeacons can be placed)
to trigger messages and location detection. The sound location can be as simple as
recording that somebody has visited a specific branch of a specific retailer, or with more
beacons it can track the participant around the store or request feedback.
The key challenges in this approach include:
∙
Fitting the locations with the technology
∙
Persuading sufficient participants to download the app and take part in the
research
∙
Ensuring that the techniques used do not run batteries down too fast.
MOTION SENSOR TECHNOLOGY
Gaming was an early adopter of motion sensor technologies, for example in the consoles
of games such as Nintendo Wii and Xbox Kinect. While the Nintendo Wii requires a
user to carry an external device to interact with the sensor, the Xbox Kinect does not
require a device to be held by the user. The sensors placed on the gaming console
detect the gamer’s physical movements and allow them to interact with the game.
Motion sensors are highly sensitive, very accurate, and capable of recording not just
movement but also the intensity of movement. From a market research perspective,
if sensors are placed near a store shelf stocking soft drinks, then the sensor would be
able to record the number of people who touched products on the shelf and identify

TECHNOLOGY257
which products were touched. Researchers would also be able to identify which prod-
ucts were ‘chosen’, ‘chosen and returned’, ‘lingered on’, and so on. Using data like this,
researchers might infer which promotions are working, how they are working, and their
impact on sales. Technologies such as Apple’s iBeacon could be used in conjunction with
this approach, or as an alternative. An iBeacon signal can push a message to a compatible
phone, recording what the research participant was doing at that moment in time.
WEARABLE TECHNOLOGIES
Wearable technologies appear to have three core uses at the moment:
1.The quantified self
2.Passive recording
3.Wearable computing.
1. Quantified self
Currently, the most popular aspects of the ‘quantified self’ focus on exercise and weight
loss, with products like Garmin Vivofit, FitBit, and Jawbone. These devices follow a much
longer tradition of walkers, runners, and cyclists using devices such as pedometers, heart
monitors, and GPS watches to track their exercise. However, the breadth of the quan-
tified self is much wider, with people measuring things as variable as mood, blood sugar,
heart rate, location, and sleep. This area also connects with a growing interest in bio-
metrics and research.
The quantified self presents an enormous opportunity for market researchers along with
considerable challenges. At the individual level, the data collected by a ‘quantified self’
project is relatively easy to analyse, for example looking at one month of data for ten
people. However, the market research tools for combining data from 1000 people into
a form that will generate insight are not generally available, although they do exist in
other areas.
2. Passive recording
Passive recording can be achieved in a variety of ways, including using mobile phones,
wearable video cameras like GoPro, life-logging cameras like Memoto, eye tracking
devices like Tobii Glasses, or devices like Google Glass. The two big pluses of these
approaches are:
1.The participant does not have to decide what to take a picture or video of,
which removes the subjective bias.
2.The systems provide a complete record, either as a video or as a series of still
images.

258THE EVOLVING PICTURE
These approaches have two main challenges (in addition to getting the technology
working the way it needs to work):
1.Cameras recording everything the participant sees create enormous data privacy
issues that the industry needs to work its way through.
2.Beyond qualitative analysis there are very few tools for processing images and
videos. This is a pressing need for market research.
3. Wearable computing
The epitome of wearable computing is, currently, Google Glass, although there are a
variety of other approaches, such as Samsung’s Galaxy Gear worn as a wrist watch.
Wearable computing creates an almost endless list of possible market research oppor-
tunities. At one end of the spectrum devices like Google Glass could be used to test
products, stores, and shelf layouts, at the other end of the spectrum these technologies
could allow researchers to sit on the participant’s shoulder, see what the participant
sees, and send questions in response to what is happening in the participant’s world.
Like passive recording, these technologies are going to raise a considerable number of
legal, ethical, and privacy related questions and like the quantified self- and location-
based services they will generate a need for new tools capable of processing large
amounts of observational data.
NEW WEB AND MOBILE MESSAGING SERVICES
One of the recent growth areas has been in messaging applications, such as WeChat,
SnapChat, and WhatsApp. These services are growing at enormous rates, with hundreds
of millions of people using these sorts of services.
At present there is no clear model of how they might be used in market research, other
than as a method of communication, but given the scale of these messaging applications
there is no shortage of people looking for ways to utilize them. However, researchers
should remember the lessons of Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn, which, despite their
enormous size and usage levels, have not had a major impact on market research,
beyond social media mining/monitoring.
SOCIETY
As well as technologies evolving, what people do with their mobile devices also changes,
and in some cases the devices change how people live their lives. This section looks at
some of the key issues relating to what people do with their mobile devices in ways
that might impact market research.

SOCIETY259
THE UBIQUITY OF THE MOBILE PHONE
As mentioned at the start of the chapter, mobile phones are becoming omnipresent.
The ITU’s ICT 2013 Facts and Figures report estimated that ‘Mobile-cellular penetration
rates stand at 96% globally; 128% in developed countries; and 89% in developing
countries’. However, the ITU figures do not account for multiple phone ownership,
and other estimates based on allowing for multiple device ownership put the global
penetration figure at about two-thirds, rather than almost 100% (Poynter 2013).
The second key aspect of the ubiquity of mobile phones is that people tend to have
their phone with them all the time. Phones are near people when they sleep, when they
go shopping, when they go to work, and many people even use them in the bathroom.
Market research today has to deal with a world where not everybody of interest has a
mobile phone, and not everybody has a smartphone, but this is changing. The numbers
will never reach 100%, but they will approach 100% of economically active adults who
want to have a phone, and in many cases already represent 100% of the target group of
interest. By contrast, the number of people who can be reached via a landline is falling.
At the moment people offering mobile market research often have to defend the mode,
but it may well soon be the mode with the most respectable claim to breadth of reach.
MULTIPLE MOBILE SUBSCRIPTIONS
In many countries there are more mobile phone subscriptions than people, because
some people have more than one mobile subscription. In broad terms the number of
mobile subscriptions is the number of SIMs in use in a country. Somebody who has a
personal phone, a work phone, a SIM in their tablet, and a SIM in their car dashboard
has four subscriptions, and can look like four people to, say, a random digit dialling
CATI system.
The number of people with multiple mobile subscriptions is likely to grow and so is the
number of subscriptions that the average person has. This is partly a consequence of
the growth in the use of phones and the projected trend to put mobile connectivity
into more devices.
As people have more subscriptions, there are potential gains and losses for market
research. The potential loss is that it makes it harder to say a phone is the same thing as
a person. This can increase the complexity of sampling and the complexity of ensuring
that participants are not interviewed (or annoyed) twice. The positive side of multiple
subscriptions per person is that there will be more aspects of people’s lives that are
capable of being observed.

260THE EVOLVING PICTURE
MOBILE DEVICES AND THE INTERNET
The number of mobile phones in a country is not the same thing as the number that are
reliably and regularly connected to the internet. In wealthier, more developed, countries,
not being reliably connected to the internet tends to be as a result of somebody making
either a personal choice or because they have a relatively low income. In many of the
developing countries the patchy nature of internet coverage and the high cost of data
connections exacerbate this situation. For example, the ITU’s 2013 ICT Facts and Figures
(ITU 2013) briefing suggests that connecting a mobile phone to the internet costs ten
times as much (as a proportion of annual income) in the developing world as in the
developed world.
Costs are coming down, and mobile coverage is increasing, in both the developed and
developing worlds, but it will be some time before market researchers can assume
everybody of interest is connected to the internet via their mobile device(s). However,
the growth of CATI in the 1990s and the growth of online in the mid-1990s showed
that it is not necessary for 100% of people to be connected in order to conduct a wide
range of market research projects.
SoLoMo
‘SoLoMo’ is a term that has been created by combining social, local, and mobile, and
refers to the way that people are using different technologies and systems in an inte-
grated way. People are using their phones to announce where they are, to find who else
is where they are, to upload or post images and observations about their surroundings,
to seek out opportunities (e.g. sales, meals, people), and to leave a digital impression
on the social and geographical landscape.
SoLoMo creates interesting opportunities for market research, in the collection of
ethnographic data, in using citizens as researchers, and in terms of collecting holistic,
tracked, passive data about what people do during their everyday lives.
PRIVATE VERSUS PUBLIC LIVES
There are two current societal trends that seemed destined to clash. The first is the
growing willingness of billions of people to share details about their lives online, for
example, snapping a picture on their phone and uploading it to Facebook, along with
automatically appending date, time, and location. The second strand is concerned with
privacy, data theft, and over-intrusive marketing.
The growing sharing/public nature of social media and mobile usage is mostly driven
by what people do. The concerns about privacy are mostly driven by what people say

SOCIETY261
and the concerns of legislators. However, it could take only a few more scandals for
people to radically change their behaviour, towards a more secure and private way of
operating.
Market researchers are currently benefiting from the fact that so many people are
willing to share so much information about their lives and actions. However, if the public
climate changes, or if legislators extend the barriers to sharing and using information,
this could have a major impact on market research.
MOBILE DEVICES AS A RESOURCE FOR SHOPPING
Mobiles are changing the way people shop, both online and in physical locations.
Browsers and apps
For some people shopping online means logging into a retail website via a browser and
shopping and this can be done from a PC or from phones and tablets.
However, mobiles have ushered in a new form of online shopping, via apps. Apps can
streamline the shopping process, can more easily be personalized to the shopper, can
create a feeling of security (particularly in terms of using things like credit cards), and,
from the retailer’s point of view, lock a shopper into one destination to a greater extent
than the browser option does.
Shopping assistants
Mobile devices, especially phones, are having a major impact on the way that some peo-
ple conduct their ‘real world’ shopping. People are using their phone to gain extra infor-
mation whilst on a shopping trip, including browsing the web for information, comparing
prices, scanning QR codes, and taking pictures for later review and discussion. One of
the challenges for researchers is to help brands gain a complete view of the pathways
to purchase, and the interaction of different advertising and promotional material along
the way; understanding more about the complete role of mobile devices in shopping
will be part of this process.
SOCIAL GAMING AND SHARING
The success of the Facebook game Farmville a few years ago highlighted that there are
many people who want to take part in activities that combine a pastime or game with
a social aspect. This form of social living is particularly relevant to mobile devices and
underpins the use of services such as Foursquare and Facebook Places.

262THE EVOLVING PICTURE
Social sharing is also a key part of many people’s fitness regime, using service such as
MyFitnessPal, where mobile devices are used to record activities, and the service is
used to share the results via the web and social networks. Sharing raises a number of
possibilities for market researchers, including reviewing existing shared information or
creating projects that utilize people’s willingness to share aspects of their lives.
MOBILE WALLETS, MOBILE BANKING,
AND MICRO-CREDIT
One change that has happened much faster in the developing world than in the devel-
oped world is growth in various forms of mobile payment and banking. In large parts
of sub-Saharan Africa payment by SMS-enabled phones is fast becoming the norm for
a large range of services.
For researchers this raises the opportunity for micro-payments as incentives for people
taking part in research projects. This approach has been made popular by organizations
such as Jana.com (formerly txteagle).
METHODOLOGY
Technology is changing, society is changing, and consequently market research methods
are evolving. This section looks at some of the ways that market research methods are
changing.
SHORTER SURVEYS
There is a widespread view that surveys on mobile phones cannot last 20, 30, and
40 minutes. There is a perception that too many potential participants will refuse to do
long surveys, either because they are disinclined to do them, or that the units of time
they have available on a mobile device are too short.
This drive towards shorter surveys focuses attention on issues like micro-surveys and
chunking or modularizing. Using micro-surveys tends to mean running more studies, but
asking fewer questions, whilst chunking tends to be used to ask longer surveys, but to
spread them over several sessions.
COLLABORATION AND CO-CREATION
The use of mobile devices, especially phones, is encouraging researchers to enlist con-
sumers to play an active, collaborative, and co-creational role in research projects.

METHODOLOGY263
Current examples of collaborative mobile research include:
∙
Participants collecting ethnographic or mobile diary data about their everyday
lives.
∙
Participants actively researching the lives of people around them.
∙
Participants collecting data about their experiences with advertising, products,
or customer service.
As the use of mobile devices evolves, these approaches are likely to make greater use
of life-logging approaches to combine observational data with research data.
PROFESSIONAL RESPONDENTS
‘Professional respondents’ is a term that can have negative connotations, but it is a
useful reminder that the use of access panels represents a major change in the way
market research is conducted, and it should not be confused with fraudulent or rogue
respondents. Before the advent of online access panels, most research participants
were deemed to have been new to the research process; in particular they were
assumed not to have taken part in similar research recently. Active members of online
access panels take part in very large numbers of surveys, often more than 100 a year.
Studies of high frequency respondents tend to show that they are people who like
doing surveys and who value the financial incentives they receive. Fraudulent or rogue
respondents are people who change their behaviour and answers to obtain the maxi-
mum reward, usually for the minimum effort (Walker et al. 2009).
A large number of mobile surveys are completed by members of online access panels
who have chosen to use their mobile devices. So mobile research is already intertwined
with the world of professional respondents, that is high frequency participants who are,
to a greater or lesser extent, motivated by the incentives they receive for taking part.
Apps may produce another form of professional respondents: people who download
apps with the intention of taking part in research projects.
OBSERVATIONAL TECHNIQUES
The recent reporting of neuroscience and behavioural economics has increased the
interest of clients and market researchers in observational research, as opposed to the
mediated and potentially over-rationalized responses to surveys or depth interviews.
Mobile devices support this interest in observational research in a variety of ways, includ-
ing the collection of passive data by mobile phones, the use of geofencing to trigger

264THE EVOLVING PICTURE
surveys or research exercises, and by collaborating with participants to log and record
some aspect of their everyday lives.
Observational research has been very successful at the qualitative level, dealing with
data at the level of the individual. There are fewer examples, so far, of mobile-based
observational data being widely used in quantitative projects, partly due the shortage of
good analysis options.
PRACTICAL ISSUES IN USING EMERGENT MOBILE
TECHNOLOGIES FOR MARKET RESEARCH
This section looks at some of the practical issues surrounding the use of emerging mobile
technologies in market research.
ADOPTION AND PENETRATION?
One of the key issues when considering a new technology is the degree of adoption and
penetration that is required before it can be used. When considering a new approach,
the degree of adoption or penetration will be a key factor in determining whether
potential participants already have the relevant device, or whether the device needs to
be supplied to them.
Are consumers expected to own the technology?
Most consumers, in most markets, own a phone; in developed countries most have
access to the internet, so these are suitable channels for broad sample market research.
Most consumers do not scan QR codes and most consumers do not possess devices
like Garmin Vivofit, so these are not suitable for mass market research, but they can be
used for niche research.
Researchers are generally looking for a technology to be adopted by more than 50%
of the population before using it for mass research, and typically they are looking for
penetration rates to be growing quickly in addition to being well above 50%.
Is the technology going to be supplied to people, for example to interviewers?
If the research company (or field company) is going to buy the technology, mass adop-
tion by consumers is not relevant. The key issues tend to be whether the technology is
cheap enough and stable enough to be used for research. In this context ‘stable’ means
two things: does the technology work and is there some stability in the supply chain? The
use of tablets for mCAPI has been an example of using a technology that has become

PRACTICAL ISSUES IN USING EMERGENT MOBILE TECHNOLOGIES FOR MARKET RESEARCH265
affordable and stable for interviewers, even before the devices are ready to be used for
general consumer samples.
MARKET RESEARCH INHIBITORS
There tend to be two main inhibitors for market research adoption of new technology,
infrastructure, and commitments to existing methods.
In order for most market research companies to make use of new technology it needs
to be capable of being integrated into market research projects. This typically means
being able to input standard questionnaires, use discussion guides, conforming to market
research ethical standards, and producing outputs in the form that market researchers
are used to. Without this sort of infrastructure, new technologies are often too time
consuming and too expensive to be widely adopted.
Market research adoption of new technologies can be delayed because of companies
being heavily invested in existing methods and approaches. Existing methods and tech-
niques often have a large number of norms and benchmarks, based on years or even
decades of use. Moving away from these norms and setting up new norms requires a
significant investment in time, money, and a willingness to create new norms and bench-
marks. In many cases, adopting a new technology requires training in new protocols and
for people to ‘unlearn’ things they had previously been trained to do.
SKIPPING TECHNOLOGIES
Sometimes a technology can allow countries or organizations to skip a technology level.
For example, in some of the developing and unorganized markets, jumping from pen
and paper methods to data capture based on mobile devices (skipping approaches such
as CATI and online) is leading to cost savings in paper, elimination of transmission time
(e.g. couriers), improved accuracy of data, and shortened delivery times.
RESEARCH AGENCY ISSUES
For research agencies two major issues around new technology are:
1.Avoiding being left behind by a major change.
2.Only having the resources to look at a limited range of options at any one time.
The second of these two issues is crucial to understanding why the adoption of new
technologies is much slower than proponents think it should be. If an agency is focusing

266THE EVOLVING PICTURE
on adopting, say, facial coding, it usually can’t, at the same time, be adopting passive
tracking and mobile ethnography.
The need to focus is true for most sizes of agency. The smaller agencies only have
limited resources (especially people and money), but the larger agencies have much
bigger and more complex systems into which they have to fit any new approach.
Agencies can loosely be divided into two categories: those who follow the market
adopting new approaches once they become widely accepted, and the innovators. The
innovators typically focus on applying a small number of new approaches and tend to
simply follow the pack in terms of other emergent approaches.
ACCESS PANELS AND COMMUNITIES
Access panels and online communities have the advantage of dealing with the same
research participants over an extended period of time. This relationship makes it
easier to generate ROI, because new tools are used repeatedly, rather than as one-off
solutions.
Panel companies and providers of research communities have been rapid adopters of
mobile approaches. To date their progress can be seen as comprising three phases:
1.Identifying the devices their members used, and warning them when a survey was
unsuitable, whilst at the same time increasing the range of phones and devices
their surveys supported.
2.Moving to a platform agnostic approach, where most of their surveys and dis-
cussions will run seamlessly on PCs, tablets, phablets, smartphones, and some
feature phones.
3.Creating research options that use apps, either by providing a research app, or
by facilitating third-party apps.
In terms of members, access panels and communities started by adding mobile func-
tionality to members who had initially been recruited to do online activities via PCs.
In the new phase of development the panels and communities are recruiting people
whose only engagement is via mobile, especially in markets where internet access via
PCs represents less than 50% of the population, i.e. where mobile is needed in order
to be representative.
RESEARCH BUYERS AND USERS
Although some research users are very interested in how research is conducted and
how data is collected, most are more concerned with the results, as opposed to the
process. Three criteria for a research buyer or user are better, faster, and cheaper.

PRACTICAL ISSUES IN USING EMERGENT MOBILE TECHNOLOGIES FOR MARKET RESEARCH267
In most cases mobile market research has not been cheaper than online research in
the developed markets and rarely cheaper than paper-based face-to-face in the least
developed markets. This has resulted in the key driver being ‘better’ and to an extent
faster.
In developing markets the use of mobile devices is speeding up the process and improv-
ing the quality control processes, which are tangible benefits that help fuel change.
In the more developed research markets ‘better’ has tended to mean moving away
from surveys that ask people to recall events and instead capture views, experiences,
and reactions ‘in the moment’. Mobiles can also be ‘better’ in the sense of reaching
a wider range of participants, in a wider range of situations, and in ways that suit the
participants.
Cheaper?
The drive for cheaper research is likely to help create a move to new solutions
rather than trying to offer a like-for-like solution. Shorter questionnaires, utilizing ‘in
the moment’ targeting, and adaptive approaches could deliver something that is better,
faster, and cheaper – and offer something different from what has gone before.
FEARS OF NEW SOURCES OF BIAS
New techniques often reduce some sources of bias, for example self-completion mobile
surveys reduce the interviewer effect found in CATI and face-to-face research, but they
typically introduce new sources of bias, such as higher refusal rates. Adoption of new
research can be delayed if the industry focuses on just the new sources of bias, rather
than the overall impact. This is because the industry is often reconciled to existing
problems, even when they are worse than those the new technology offers.
The true nature of the changes associated with mobile market research will only become
fully apparent as the method becomes more widely established. However, early indica-
tions suggest that the key issues are:
∙
Mobile research can broaden the range of people reached by the research,
which can in turn impact the results.
∙
When comparing online via PCs and mobile devices, the results are in most
cases similar, with some important differences.
∙
Collecting ‘in the moment’ data results in more information about the topic
being investigated, but there are concerns that this is partly the result of par-
ticipants being too primed/sensitive to the topic.

268THE EVOLVING PICTURE
PRIVACY
The privacy of respondents is essential to existing market research methods and the
success and acceptance of a new method often rests on its ability to comply with market
research expectations and guidelines. In fields where technological possibilities outstrip
the pace of regulation there tends to be a tension between market researchers, who
have signed up to codes of conduct, and non-researchers, who are not aware of these
codes of conduct and do not feel constrained by them. This pattern is true of social
media research, big data, and it is certainly true of many of the opportunities created
by mobile market research.
TECHNOLOGY FRAGMENTATION AND TECHNOLOGY CHANGE
Because mobile technology is evolving quickly and in a fragmented way, mobile market
research solutions must be designed to take advantage of the features used today as well
as those that are likely to evolve in the near future. For example, until recently Nokia and
BlackBerry phones were seen as being potentially central to mobile market research.
Following the launch of the iPhone, the direction of developments has changed. The
widespread adoption of Android has moved the centre of gravity for mobile market
research again. Researchers need to move with these changes, as and when they occur.
KEEPING IN TOUCH WITH THE LEADING EDGE
A book can only capture the mobile picture at a moment in time. The following
resources are all likely to be of benefit to anybody who wants to keep in touch with
the changes happening in the mobile world:
∙
The companion website for this book, www.handbookofmobilemarket
research.com, contains a fuller glossary, more details on the case studies
included in the book, and more case studies. It will also contain updates on
developments in mobile market research.
∙
Workshops and conferences organized by research bodies such as ESOMAR
and MRS, and other local associations.
∙
The MRMW series of conferences (Market Research in the Mobile World)
organized by the Merlien organization.
∙
The MMRA (Mobile Marketing Research Association) is a global trade body
that develops and promotes professional and ethical standards for mobile mar-
ket research.
∙
The Global Market Research report (annual) and the Global Prices Study (every
two years) from ESOMAR.

SUMMARY269
∙
The yearly GRIT report from GreenBook.
∙
The Confirmit Annual Market Research Software report.
∙
The Mobile Course provided by the University of Georgia’s Principles of Mar-
keting Research course.
∙
Online events and recordings at NewMR.org, and its Mobile reference page
NewMR.org/mobile.
∙
Useful sources of data and information include ITU (www.itu.int), press
releases and reports from IDC and Gartner, and reports available from the
Pew Research Center (www.pewresearch.org/).
∙
Useful news sites/blogs include: Mashable.com, Techcrunch.com, ZDNet.com,
and cnet.com.
∙
Academic and practitioner journals will be a good source of information about
the latest research-on-research findings.
SUMMARY
2500 years ago the Greek philosopher Heraclitus said ‘the only constant is change’. This
is certainly true of market research and especially relevant to the evolving picture of
mobile market research. The key themes of this evolving picture are:
∙
The world is moving to a situation where nearly everybody of interest to market
research has a mobile phone, and in many markets that will tend to be a
smartphone.
∙
Beyond smartphones there are many other changes, for example tablets, web
messaging, improved location-based services, and mobile payments.
∙
However, most innovations will not have a major impact on the world, or
market research. Winners are rare.
∙
The key driver of mobile research in the developed markets has been ‘better’,
in particular, in collecting ‘in the moment’ information.
∙
In the developing markets another key driver has been ‘faster’, in addition to
‘better’.
∙
One of the key requirements for a new technology is its ability to fit into the
market research ecosystem, for example can it handle market research ques-
tions, can it produce market research outputs, in ways that market researchers
consider practical and ethical?

270THE EVOLVING PICTURE
∙
A specific weakness of many new approaches is that they produce large
amounts of detailed information that is hard to analyse quantitatively, for
example GPS coordinates of movements or large amounts of video.
∙
Even innovative agencies can only explore and implement a small number of
new approaches at any moment in time.

Glossary
3GThird generation mobile technology, supports mobile broadband facilitating use of
the internet from mobile devices. The roll-out of 3G dates from about 2001.
4GFourth generation mobile technology, faster mobile broadband than 3G. The roll-
out of 4G dates from about 2009.
AccelerometerA sensor in a mobile device that detects and measures movement.
AndroidAn operating system for touchscreen mobile devices, developed by Google
and currently the most common operating system on new phones sold.
AppA piece of software that runs on a mobile device, such as a game, a browser, or
a survey app.
App storeAn app store is a service where apps can be downloaded, including free
and purchased apps. Apps downloaded from an approved app store such as iTunes or
Google Play are more likely to be trusted than those downloaded from other locations.
Asynchronous online qualitative researchQualitative approaches, such as online dis-
cussions, that do not require the participants and the moderator to be online at the
same time. (See also ‘Synchronous online qualitative research’.)
AvatarThe way somebody is identified online: it can be a name, or it can include an
image, or it can be more complex.
BlackBerry Messenger (BBM)A low cost, relatively secure messaging system that con-
nected (and still connects) BlackBerry devices together. BBM is now available for other
devices.
BluetoothA technology protocol used for short distance transmissions between
mobile devices.
Bluetooth LEA low energy (LE) version of Bluetooth.
CAPIComputer Assisted Personal Interviewing, usually a form of face-to-face inter-
viewing where the questionnaire is administered via a computer.
CATIComputer Assisted Telephone Interviewing, where interviews are conducted via
telephone with an interviewer in conjunction with a PC.

272GLOSSARY
CCTVClosed circuit TV, often referred to as security cameras.
Cell tower trackingA method the telcos can use to track where people are located
by checking which towers they are connected to.
ChunkingChunking is a process for reducing the length of a survey. The survey is
divided into sections so that the participant can complete it one or more sections at a
time. This is also referred to as modularizing.
Crowd (as in ‘the wisdom of the crowd’ or crowdsourcing)The crowd refers to
ordinary people, as opposed to experts or professionals.The Wisdom of Crowdswas
the title of a book by James Surowiecki (2005) which suggested the average estimate
of ordinary people can be as good as experts.
Device agnosticDevice agnostic, or platform agnostic, in the context of mobile
research, means allowing participants to choose whether to use a PC or a mobile device,
and the type of mobile device they prefer.
Environmental sensorsSensors on a mobile device that can measure some aspect of
the environment, such as air pressure, temperature, or light.
Ethnographic dataData about people’s everyday lives, for example images and videos
from people’s day-to-day experiences.
EthnographyThe study of the lived experience, usually consisting of collecting ethno-
graphic data, analysis, and the creation of an explanatory narrative.
Feature phoneThere is no phone that is a ‘feature phone’. The term has been
retrofitted to describe phones that are not smartphones.
FlashFlash was a widely used tool to provide graphics and animation on websites.
It has fallen into decline in recent years as it is not supported by iOS or Android, the
leading smartphone and tablet operating systems. The owner of Flash, Adobe, has largely
discontinued the production, development, and support of Flash.
ForumsAn online discussion. Either a single conversation or a collection of discussions.
GamificationThe utilization of game-like elements into a survey or process to make it
more engaging.
GeofencingGeofencing is where a boundary is established for a location (for example
a specific restaurant) and technologies are used to identify when somebody enters or
leaves that particular location. The information about people entering or leaving an area
can be used to trigger location-based activities, such as a survey.
GeolocationWorking out where somebody is, for example by using GPS.

GLOSSARY273
GeotaggingAdding location information to other data, for example adding location to
a survey or image.
Google GlassA piece of wearable technology from Google, including a camera, voice
recognition, and a screen.
GPSGlobal Positioning Satellite. GPS uses satellites to locate a device.
GyroscopeSensor that measures the turning and rotation of a device.
HTMLHyperText Markup Language. HTML is the main method of creating web pages
for the internet, using text commands.
HTML5HTML5 is the latest version of HTML. HTML5 is, amongst other things, very
suitable for mobile devices.
iBeaconA new device from Apple that uses Bluetooth to recognize when a phone is
nearby, for example when entering a store.
IM (Instant messaging)A method of real-time chat, usually text, usually via the internet.
Installed baseThe devices that are in use. The installed base is often used in contrast
to the recent device sales figures, which reflects what has been bought recently.
iOSThe operating system from Apple used by the iPhone and iPad.
ITU (International Telecommunication Union)The United Nations specialist telecom-
munications agency.
Location analyticsAnalytics based on location data, for example GPS information.
Location-based Services (LBS)Services based on location information, for example
sending a message to a shopper’s phone as they enter a store.
mCAPI or Mobile CAPIMobile CAPI (Computer Assisted Personal Interviewing), using
a mobile device to assist with face-to-face interviewing.
mCATIMobile CATI (Computer Assisted Telephone Interviewing), conducting tele-
phone (voice) interviews via participant’s mobile phone.
Metaphor (of the device)The metaphor of a device describes the way people interact
with a device, for example GUI (graphical user interface) or WIMP (windows, icons,
menus, and a pointer).
Micro-paymentsVery small payments, typically conducted via mobile devices.

274GLOSSARY
Micro-surveysVery short surveys, typically three or fewer questions.
Mixed-modeUsing more than one mode for a study, for example some participants
taking part in the study by completing an online questionnaire and some taking part by
completing a paper questionnaire.
MMRAn abbreviation of Mobile Market Research.
MMRAThe MMRA is the Mobile Marketing Research Association – see more at
www.mmra-global.org.
MMSMultimedia messaging service, used to send messages containing media files to or
from mobile phones.
Mobile appSee ‘App’.
Mobile deviceIn most cases this refers to a phone, tablet, or phablet, but can also refer
to wearable technologies.
Mobile diary/diariesUsing a mobile device (phone or tablet) to keep a research diary,
typically as part of a qualitative research project.
Mobile discussionsAccessing online forums and/or discussions from a mobile device.
Mobile forumsSee ‘Mobile discussions’.
Mobile homeworkTask or assignment given to a research participant to undertake
using their mobile device.
Mobile onlyDescribes a project where all the participants are using mobile devices, as
opposed to a mixed-mode or device agnostic project.
Mobile service providerThe companies that provide the mobile phone networks that
connect mobile phones to the wider telephone network.
ModularizingSee ‘Chunking’.
Motion sensorSensor in a mobile device that detects movement.
Multi-modeSee ‘Mixed-mode’.
NFC (Near Field Communication)A telecommunication protocol that allows two
devices to talk to each other when they are close together or in contact. It can be used
to send and/or receive information when it is embedded in a mobile phone.

GLOSSARY275
Operating system (OS)The operating system manages the hardware and allows pro-
grams and apps to provide services. Two leading mobile operating systems are Google’s
Android and Apple’s iOS.
ParadataData about the research process, for example how long participants took to
answer each question.
Passive dataData that does not require the active participation of a user to be collected.
For example, the route taken by a participant on their way to work, collected via their
mobile phone and GPS.
Passive data collectionSee ‘Passive data’.
PDA (Personal Digital Assistant)A mobile digital device. These have been largely
superseded by tablets and modern mobile phones, but some are still in use for spe-
cialist purposes.
PhabletA phablet is a mobile device that is larger than a typical phone, smaller than
a typical tablet, with the features of a phone. The word phablet is a combination of
PHone and tABLET.
PingingTo send a signal from one device to another to either check a connection exists
or to check the speed of a connection.
Platform agnosticSee ‘Device agnostic’.
Professional respondentsResearch participants who are either (a) mostly or (b)
entirely motivated by incentives and who take part in a large number of research
projects.
Pure playA company that just uses a single channel, for example a retailer that only
sells online.
QR (Quick Response) codesA two-dimensional bar code that can contain a variety
of information, for example instructions or a URL. QR codes can be used to launch a
survey. QR codes can be read by phones, if they have a suitable app.
QR readerA mobile phone app that uses the phone’s camera to read and interpret a
QR code.
Quantified selfThe trend in people keeping an ongoing record of some aspect (or
multiple aspects) of their life – for example using Garmin Vivofit to track their activities
and food intake.

276GLOSSARY
Research-on-researchOften referred to as RoR. Research about the research process,
to help explore or explain research processes.
Return on investmentReturn on investment (often expressed as ROI) is the result of
an investment. A positive ROI is where the return on the spending is at least more than
the amount spent, and typically better than other uses the money could have been put
to. The ROI can also be expressed as a percentage (ROI=net profit/investment×
100).
RFIDRadio Frequency Identification. A low-power wireless communication protocol.
RFIDs are often used in badges, cards, and devices to permit entry, record activity, or
to track location.
ROISee ‘Return on investment’.
RoRSee ‘Research-on-research’.
Screen resolutionThe resolution of a screen describes the number of pixels, i.e. the
number of separate items that can be turned on or off. The resolution is normally
expressed as the number of rows and columns, for example 1024 x 768, which means
768 rows of 1024 pixels.
Screen sizePhysical size of a screen. It is normally the diagonal length of a mobile screen
measured in inches.
ScriptingIn market research scripting refers to creating a computer administered ques-
tionnaire. In particular it often means being able to use a language to enter commands,
either a survey language or a computer language such as JavaScript.
SIM (card)Subscriber Identity Module. A small card containing an integrated circuit that
establishes the identity of a mobile device to a telephone service provider. For example,
a SIM is used in a mobile phone to allow it to subscribe to a network.
SiriAn Apple app that uses voice recognition to allow the user to issue commands and
queries to a mobile device, such as an iPhone.
SmartphoneThe definition of a smartphone evolves over time. At the time of this
book being researched it tends to refer to devices with a touchscreen, internet access,
multimedia features, and capable of running a wide range of apps.
SMSShort Messaging Service. A method of sending text messages to and/or from
mobile phones.
Software as a Service (SaaS)In a SaaS solution the software is accessed, typically, via
the internet, and the user pays to use it, rather than paying to buy a copy of the software.

GLOSSARY277
SoLoMoA combination of social, local, and mobile, used to refer to the convergence
of these three elements.
Synchronous online qualitative researchSynchronous refers to the moderator and the
participants being online at the same time, as in an online focus group. The alternative
is an asynchronous technique, such as an online forum.
TabletA touchscreen computer, such as an iPad.
TelcoShort for telecommunications company. The telcos provide the telephone ser-
vices, including fixed lines, mobile, and internet.
ThreadIn an online discussion each separate discussion is known as a thread.
Unintentional mobileUnintentional mobile, also known as accidental mobile, refers
to surveys where the research is designed or intended for participants using PCs, but
where some participants choose to use a mobile device.
URLUniform Resource Locator. The URL is also known as a web address. It is a text
string that usually defines a specific web page.
USSDUnstructured Supplementary Service Data allows a participant’s phone to be
connected to the researcher’s computer via a gateway, allowing for messages of up to
182 characters to be sent backwards and forwards. Some agencies have had success
using this method for research surveys, particularly in countries where smartphones
and/or internet access are relatively rare, such as many countries in Africa.
Voice recognitionVoice recognition is software that interprets the spoken word. Voice
recognition is used in voice commands (such as those used by Siri and Google Glass).
VOIPVoice Over Internet Protocol, a method of using an internet connection to have
voice or video conversations, for example Skype.
WAPWireless Application Protocol was an early method of providing internet to
mobile devices and is still used when faster methods are not available.
Wearable technologiesDevices that are worn, such as smart glasses or watches, which
connect to mobile devices or the mobile network.
WE-researchEnlisting people to collaborate in market research processes.



References
AAPOR Cell Phone Task Force (2010)New Considerations for Survey Researchers When Planning
and Conducting RDD Telephone Surveys in the U.S.With Respondents Reached via Cell Phone
Numbers.
Bain,  R  (2011)The power of text in the developing world,  20  January,  viewed  15
February 2014,<www.research-live.com/features/the-power-of-text-in-the-developing-world/
4004395.article>.
Ballve, M (2013) ‘How Much Time Do We Really Spend On Our Smartphones Every Day?’Busi-
ness Insider, viewed 18 February,<www.businessinsider.com.au/how-much-time-do-we-spend-
on-smartphones-2013-6>.
Blumberg, P and Luke, J, (2012)Wireless Substitution: Early Release of Estimates From the
National Health Interview Survey, July–December, CDC Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion,<www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/nhis/earlyrelease/wireless201212.PDF&lrm;>. ESOMAR Global
Market Research 2012.
Cattell, J (2001)The mobile internet revolution and it implications for research, ESOMAR Net Effects
4, Barcelona, February 2001, pp. 191–213.
Chudoba, B (2010) ‘Does Adding One More Question Impact Survey Completion Rate?’,
web log post, 8 December 2010, viewed 24 February 2014,<www.surveymonkey.com/
blog/en/blog/2010/12/08/survey_questions_and_completion_rates/>.
Chudoba, B (2011) ‘How Much Time are Respondents Willing to Spend on Your Sur-
vey?’ web log post, 14 February 2011, viewed 24 February 2014,<www.surveymonkey.com/
blog/en/blog/2011/02/14/survey_completion_times/>.
de Bruijne, M and Wijnant, A (2013) ‘Can Mobile Web Surveys Be Taken on Computers? A
Discussion on a Multi-Device Survey Design’,Survey Practice, Vol. 6, no. 4, viewed 5 July 2014,
<http://surveypractice.org/index.php/SurveyPractice/article/download/238/pdf>.
Deloitte  (2013)  viewed  15  February  2014,<www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-United
States/Local%20Assets/Documents/us_Retail_2013HolidaySurveyResults_102113.pdf>.
eMarketer (2013) viewed 15 February 2014,<www.emarketer.com/newsroom/index.php
/emarketer-tablets-smartphones-drive-mobile-commerce-record-heights/>.
ESOMAR (2009)ESOMAR Guide on Distinguishing Market Research from Other Data
Collection Activities, viewed 16 February 2014,<www.esomar.org/uploads/pdf/ESOMAR_
Codes&Guidelines_MaintainingDistinctionsMRDM.pdf>.

280REFERENCES
ESOMAR  (2012a)ESOMAR Guideline for Conducting Mobile Market Research,viewed
16  February  2014,<www.esomar.org/uploads/public/knowledge-and-standards/codes-and-
guidelines/ESOMAR_Guideline-for-conducting-Mobile-Market-Research.pdf>.
ESOMAR (2012b)28 Questions to Help Research Buyers of Online Samples,viewed
16 February 2014,<www.esomar.org/uploads/public/knowledge-and-standards/documents/
ESOMAR-28-Questions-to-Help-Buyers-of-Online-Samples-September-2012.pdf>.
ESOMAR (2013)Global Market Research 2013, prepared by ESOMAR in conjunction with BDO
Accountants and Advisors, ESOMAR, The Netherlands.
Gartner (2014) ‘Gartner Says Less Than 0.01 Percent of Consumer Mobile Apps Will Be Consid-
ered a Financial Success by Their Developers Through 2018’ 13 January 2014, viewed 24 Febru-
ary 2014,<www.gartner.com/newsroom/id/2648515>.
GreenBook (2013a)GRIT Consumer Participation in Research Report: A Study of Survey-Takers
in 200+Countries and Regions around the World, GreenBook, viewed 22 January 2014,
<www.Greenbook.org/GRITCPR>.
Greenbook (2013b) GRIT (Greenbook Research Industry Trends) Report, Winter 2013, viewed
1 July 2014,<www.greenbookblog.org/grit-winter-2013/>
Greenbook (2014) GRIT (Greenbook Research Industry Trends) Report, Winter 2014, viewed
1 July 2014,<www.greenbook.org/grit>
Hofmeyr, J (2013)From the handset to the client: Marketing research without researchers, Mar-
ket Research in the Mobile World, 8–11 October 2013, London, viewed 16 February 2014,
<mrmw.net/eu-2013-london-day-1>.
Hu, Sean S, Ballus, L, Battaglia, MP, and Frankel, Martin R (2011) ‘Improving Public Health Surveil-
lance Using a Dual-Frame Survey of Landline and Cell Phone Numbers’American Journal of
Epidemiology, Vol. 173, No. 6, 703–711, viewed 12 May 2014,<http://aje.oxfordjournals.org/
content/173/6/703.full.pdf+html>.
ITU (2013)Measuring the Information Society, International Telecommunication Union,
Geneva Switzerland, viewed 4 January 2014,<www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Documents/
publications/mis2013/MIS2013_without_Annex_4.pdf>.
ITU  (2013)The World in 2013: ICT Facts and Figures,  viewed  24  February  2014,
<www.itu.int/en/ITU-D/Statistics/Documents/facts/ICTFactsFigures2013-e.pdf>.
Jue, A and Luck, K (2014)Update: Participation of mobile users in online surveys, Decipher White
Paper, viewed 4 July 2014,<www.decipherinc.com/n/uploads/images/pages/Decipher_Mobile_
Research_White_Paper_Update.pdf>.
Kearon, J and Earls, M (2009)Me-to-we research – From asking unreliable witnesses about them-
selves to asking people what they notice, believe & predict about others, ESOMAR, Congress,
Montreux, September 2009.

REFERENCES281
Kravets, D (2013) ‘Cops and Feds Routinely “Dump” Cell Towers to Track Everyone Nearby’,
Wired.com, viewed 18 February 2014,<www.wired.com/threatlevel/2013/12/massive-domestic-
monitorning/>.
Krosnick, J (2000) ‘The Threat of Satisficing in Surveys: The Shortcuts Respondents Take in
Answering Questions’,Survey Methods Newsletter, Vol. 20, No. 1,<https://pprg.stanford.edu/wp-
content/uploads/2000-The-threat-of-satisficing-in-surveys-The-shortcuts-responde.pdf>.
Leadbeater, C (2009)We Think: Mass Innovation Not Mass Production, Profile Books Ltd, London,
UK.
MacKerron, G and Mourato, S (2013) ‘Happiness is greater in natural environments’, viewed
15 February 2014,<http://personal.lse.ac.uk/mackerro/happy_natural_envs.pdf>.
McCormick, R (2014) ‘Grocery stores push coupons to iPhones with iBeacons’,The Verge,
viewed 15 February 2014,<www.theverge.com/2014/1/7/5282872/ibeacons-in-grocery-stores-
for-inmarket-app-users>.
Manson, K (2013) ‘From oil painter to the C-suite’,Financial Times, viewed 16 February 2013,
<www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/c62cf5aa-7b8a-11e2-95b9-00144feabdc0.html#axzz2rMS8u28g>.
Marketing Charts Staff (2013) ‘Data Dive: QR Codes’,Marketing Charts, 8 July 2013, viewed 24
February 20014,<www.marketingcharts.com/wp/direct/data-dive-qr-codes-29525/>.
Meeker M and Wu L (2013)Internet Trends, KPCB Kleiner Perkins Caufield Byers, viewed 21
February 2014,<www.kpcb.com/insights/2013-internet-trends>.
MRS (2010) MRS Regulations for Using Research Techniques for Non-Research Pur-
poses, MRS, November 2010, viewed 16 February 2014,<www.mrs.org.uk/pdf/2012-02-
23%20Regulations%20for%20Non%20Research%20Purposes.pdf>.
Ofcom (2013) ‘Communications Market Report 2013’, 1 August 2013, viewed 24 February
2014,<http://stakeholders.ofcom.org.uk/binaries/research/cmr/cmr13/2013_UK_CMR.pdf>.
OnDevice  Research,  viewed  24  February  2014,<http://ondeviceresearch.com/media/
content/20130923055108_mobile-survey-chunking-whitepaper.pdf>.
Pennay, D, Misson, S, and Vickers, N (2013)Using Dual-Frame Telephone Surveys to include the
‘Mobile Phone-Only’ population, AMSRS Conference, Sydney, Australia, 5–6 September.
Pew Research Center’s Internet & American Life Project (2012)The Best (and Worst) of
Mobile Connectivity, Pew Research Center, Washington, viewed 15 February 2014<www
.pewinternet.org/files/old-media//Files/Reports/2012/PIP_Best_Worst_Mobile_113012.pdf>.
Pew Research Internet Project (2013)Mobile Technology Fact Sheet, 27 December, 2013, viewed
22 February 2014,<www.pewinternet.org/fact-sheets/mobile-technology-fact-sheet/>.
Poynter, R (2010)The Handbook of Online and Social Media Research: Tools and Techniques for
Market Researchers, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, Chichester UK.

282REFERENCES
Poynter, R (2013) ‘The ITU is 100% Wrong on Mobile Phone Penetration, IMHO’, web log post,
29 June 2013, viewed 24 February 2014,<http://newmr.org/the-itu-is-100-wrong-on-mobile-
phone-penetration-imho/>.
Poynter, R (2014a) ‘Stop Asking When Mobile will be the Next Big Thing, it Happened a Year
or Two Ago!’, web log post, 27 January 2014, viewed 16 February 2014, htttp://newmr.org/stop-
asking-when-mobile-will-be-the-next-big-thing-it-happened-a-year-or-two-ago/>.
Poynter, R (2014b) ‘The Shape Of Mobile Market Research Over The Next Three Years’,
web log post, 3 February 2014, viewed 24 February 2014,<www.greenbookblog.org/2014/02/
03/the-shape-of-mobile-market-research-over-the-next-three-years/.
Rosling, H (2013)<http://edition.cnn.com/2013/12/10/opinion/gapminder-hans-rosling/>.
Surowiecki, J (2005)The Wisdom of Crowds, Anchor Books, New York.
Tapscott, D and Williams, A (2008)Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything,
Atlantic Books, London, UK.
The Economist (2014) ‘From Weibo to WeChat’,The Economist, viewed 16 February 2014,
<www.economist.com/news/china/21594296-after-crackdown-microblogs-sensitive-online-
discussion-has-shifted-weibo-wechat>.
Walker, R, Pettit, R, and Rubinson, J (2009) ‘A Special Report from the Advertising Research
Foundation – The Foundations of Quality Initiative: A Five-Part Immersion into the Quality of
Online Research’,Journal of Advertising Research, Vol. 49, No. 4, December, 464–485.
Weisberg, J (2003) ‘The MCAPI primer’,Quirks Marketing Research Media, February
2003, viewed 21 February 2014,<www.quirks.com/articles/a2003/20030209.aspx?searchID=
906234243&pg=1>.
Williams, N (2014a) ‘The Mobile Advantage In Illiterate Or Limited Literacy Popu-
lations’, Greenbook Blog, web log post, 20 January 2014, viewed 16 February 2014,
<www.greenbookblog.org/2014/01/20/the-mobile-advantage-in-illiterate-or-limited-literacy-
populations/>.
Williams, N (2014b) ‘The Mobile Players in 2014 & Mobile MR’ web log post, 14 Jan-
uary 2014, viewed 24 February 2014,<http://newmr.org/the-mobile-players-in-2014-mobile-
mr-navin-williams/>.
Witt,  K  (2000)Moving  Studies  to  the  Web:  A  Case  Study,  Proceedings  of  the
Sawtooth Software Conference, March 2000, Hilton Head Island, viewed 24 February
2014,<sawtoothsoftware.com/download/techpap/2000Proceedings.pdf>.

About the Authors
RAY POYNTER
Ray has spent the last 35 years at the interface of technology, innovation, and market
research, and sees his mission as ‘To have fun, help people, advocate change, and ideally
make some money along the way’.
Ray is the author ofThe Handbook of Online and Social Media Research, joint editor of
ESOMAR’sAnswers to Contemporary Market Research Questionsbook, a contributor of
courses to the University of Georgia’s Principles of Marketing Research distance learning
course, and the founder of NewMR.org. Ray is in regular demand as a workshop leader,
conference speaker, contributor to magazines, blogger, and consultant.
Ray is the Managing Director of The Future Place, a director with Vision Critical (heading
up their knowledge gathering and sharing operation), and has been the independent
research consultant on the last four ESOMAR Global Pricing Studies. Previous roles
include director-level appointments with Virtual Surveys, Millward Brown, IntelliQuest,
The Research Business, and Sandpiper International.
You can follow Ray on Twitter using @RayPoynter.
NAVIN WILLIAMS
Navin Williams is the founder and CEO at MobileMeasure Consultancy Limited. Navin
has extensive experience in the Market Research, Technology, and Media & Telecom
sectors. Navin has worked for some of the world’s market research leaders across the
disciplines of media, consumer (IMRB, RI & Nielsen), and retail (Nielsen). He has held
senior roles in four countries, spanning two continents. His last assignment with Nielsen
was as Head of Consumer Research (FMCG) in China.
He has spent a large part of his career introducing pioneering digital and mobile data
collection methods in Asia, Africa, and other parts of the world. His quest to drive
mobile and digital adoption in market research led him to found MobileMeasure.
A digital pioneer, Navin is widely regarded as a thought-leader in the evolution of mobile
technology in research. Navin is the co-author of University of Georgia’s MRII curricu-
lum Mobile Marketing Research and is part of ESOMAR’s Mobile Monitoring Group.
A frequent speaker at conferences, he also lends his time to universities and schools
introducing mobile market research to students and professionals.

284ABOUT THE AUTHORS
Navin holds an MBA from the University of Pune, India. He is based in Shanghai, China
with his wife and their two children.
SUE YORK
Sue is a market and social researcher working at the Institute for Social Science Research
at The University of Queensland in Australia. She has more than 15 years’ experience
in market research across a wide variety of sectors and research approaches, and of
utilizing advances in technology in data collection.
Sue enjoys working at the intersection of research methodology, technology, and inno-
vation. She has a love of new methods and techniques, and is a strong advocate of
methodological rigour, and the need for research-on-research to continually improve
research approaches.
Sue has a high profile within the global market research community, and has run work-
shops for bodies such as ESOMAR, AMSRS (Australian Market and Social Research
Society), and the MRSS (Singapore).
She is joint editor and curator of the ESOMAR book and ongoing projectAnswers to
Contemporary Market Research Questions.
Sue is an active member of the market research online community and was a founder
of NewMR.
Sue tweets as @1sue3, mostly about research methods and related innovations.

A Note of Thanks
There is a saying that it takes a village to raise a child, and our experience is that it takes a
research community to produce a better book. We have been astounded and pleased
by the amount of help and advice that we have received over the last year whilst writing
this book and we’d like to put our thanks on record to as many of those people and
organizations as possible.
In this section there are lists of the people and organizations who have contributed to
the book, via online discussions, reviewing content, or by contributing material.
However, special thanks are extended to The University of Georgia and to Reg Baker.
This book draws on material developed by Navin Williams and Ray Poynter, under the
editorial leadership of Reg Baker, for the University of Georgia’s Principles of Marketing
Research course ‘Mobile Marketing Research’, launched in 2014.
ORGANIZATIONS
The following organizations have kindly supplied access to materials, case studies, advice,
support, and the results of research-on-research:
Australia Online
Confirmit
CrowdLab
Curious Analytics
Decipher
Dub
ESOMAR
Google Consumer Surveys
Greenbook
IPSOS
Join the Dots
Kantar
Locately
Lumi Mobile
Marketing Sciences
Merlien
MESH
MFour Mobile
MMR Research Worldwide
MMRA (Mobile Marketing Research Asso-
ciation)
MobileMeasure
NewMR
OnDevice
Research Now
Revelation
SKIM
SSI
Tesco
TNS South Africa

286A NOTE OF THANKS
The University of Queensland
University of Georgia’s Principles
of Marketing Research Course
Vision Critical
Wallis Group
Wiley
PEOPLE
The following people have all helped with the book, in a variety of ways. For example,
some have reviewed chapters, some have contributed to our online crowdsourcing of
ideas, and some have highlighted alternative sources.
Ansie Lombaard
Bernie Baffour
Betsy Leichliter
Brian Fine
Cao Shuai
Carolyn Hall
Dan Foreman
Darren Pennay
Don Marek
Emma Earl
Fiona Blades
Frankie Johnson
Gerard Loosschilder
Gerry Nicolaas
Guy Rolfe
Heidi Swanepoel
Helen Bartlett
Inge Nel
Jan Wegelin
Jasper Lim
Jayne Van Souwe
Jenny Ng
John Davidson
Jon Beaumont
Karine Del Moro
Lara Hoppe
Lenny Murphy
Mark Michelson
Matthew Lintern
Melanie Courtright
Michele Haynes
Mich
`
ele Poynter
Miguel Ramos
Monica Gessner
Niall Smith
Noah Marconi
Pam Bracken
Paul McDonald
Pete Cape
Priya Williams
Ranjit Singh
Ravi Shankar Bose
Richard Owen
Rick Wilson
Siim Teller
Siobhan Churchill
Soudamini Bose
Stephen Cribbett
Steve August
Thaddeus Fulford-Jones
William Poynter
Yoshida Tomoko

Index
A/B testing 226, 228–9, 233
AAPOR 162, 165
accelerometers 42, 44, 189, 271
access panels 120, 121, 192–6, 199, 201, 203
apps 118, 143, 196
B2B research 30
development phases 266
ethnography and diaries 96
growth of 205
international research 209, 215
mCATI 167
mixed-mode research 116
mobile only surveys 117
one stop solutions 122
participant cooperation 14
professional respondents 263
research-on-research 250
retail research 17
sample effects 136–7, 138
strengths and weaknesses 204
active research 110–11
AdMob 234
Adobe 272
AdShout 26
advertising 204, 234–6, 248
A/B testing 228
ad testing 26–7, 61, 247, 251
tracking 27–8
agencies 30, 265–6
agile development 226, 229
alerts 24–5
Alexa.com 227
Android 13, 33–4, 45, 52, 233, 271, 272
apps 110
emergence of 7
global sales 41
growth of 232
market share 47
mCAPI 155, 157
research-on-research 250
smartphone only studies 173
surveys 108
tablets 35, 36
widespread adoption of 268
Angry Birds 41
animation 255
annoyance 14, 241, 244
anonymity 14, 81, 239, 241
Apache 229
App Store 33
app stores 6, 271
Apple 36, 45–6, 47, 110, 225
App Store 33
ascendency 41
iBeacon 24, 50, 91, 185, 234, 253, 257, 273
iPad 8, 33, 35, 46, 155, 248, 273
Siri 254, 276
smartphone evolution 33, 34
see alsoiOS; iPhone
apps 6, 38–9, 42, 44, 52, 232–3, 252–3
access panels 196, 266
definition of 271
early research 5
feature phones 35, 61
location tracking 186
low cost 64
mCAPI 151, 154–5
mobile diaries 88, 89
mobile ethnography 84
mobile only research 172
passive data 180, 191
platform selection 101
professional respondents 263
qualitative research 68
quantitative research 106, 109–10
recruitment of participants 117–18
research communities 201
shopping 91–2, 261
surveys 9, 129, 140–3, 145
usage tracking 187–8
Arbitron 190
asynchronous online qualitative research 70–1, 271
audio recordings 55, 68, 189
depth interviews 80
ethnographic data 85
mobile diaries 90
audio signals 51
audio signature 256
audits
retail 20
shopping 18
avatars 73, 271
Ballve, Marcelo 187
bandwidth 76, 129
battery life 111, 157–8
bias, new sources of 267
big data 17, 21, 227, 268
BlackBerry 7, 30, 33, 41, 46, 230–2, 268
BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) 271

288INDEX
blogging 56, 58, 83, 87–90, 96
Bluetooth 42, 50, 271, 273
apps 143
ethical issues 238
location within a site 184, 185
brands 40–1, 113
globalization 207
research communities 199
tracking 27–8
briefing participants 98–9
briefs, research 208
browsers 9, 35, 68, 92, 100, 109, 120, 143, 261
business-to-business (B2B) research 29–30
cameras 42, 44, 189, 190
see alsoimages; life-logging cameras; video
CAPI (Computer Aided Personal Interviewing) 10, 149,
150, 159, 271
see alsomCAPI
CATI (Computer Aided Telephone Interviewing) 4, 38,
104, 119, 136–7, 160–70, 221, 249, 260, 267
CCTV 59, 183, 271
cell tower tracking 49, 51, 183, 185, 189, 272
China 220, 255
chunking 12, 124, 272
Citrix 81
client/customer lists 120, 121, 196–9, 201, 203,
205
ethnography and diaries 96
mCATI 167
mobile only surveys 117
participant cooperation 14
research-on-research 250
sample effects 136–7, 138
strengths and weaknesses 204
cluetec 152–3
collaborative ethnography 86–7
collaborative research 262–3
communities 4, 11, 15, 120, 121, 199–203, 205
apps 118
development phases 266
ethnography and diaries 96
mCATI 167
mobile only surveys 117
mobile service providers 232
qualitative research 56, 58, 60
sample effects 136–7, 138
strengths and weaknesses 204
competition laws 30
comScore 39
Confirmit 4, 7, 151, 268
conjoint analysis 28, 29
connecting from mobile 56, 57, 58, 70–82
consentseeinformed consent
consumption tracking 113
contracts 8, 40
conventional research 56, 57, 60
cookies 189, 235
costs 40, 64–5, 204, 236, 267
CATI 162, 170
ethical issues 14, 67, 241
international research 212
PC-based surveys 13
software choice 156
crowdfunding 230
crowds 272
crowdsourcing 226, 229–30
custom-built surveys 122, 145–6
customer/client lists 120, 121, 196–9, 201, 203, 205
ethnography and diaries 96
mCATI 167
mobile only surveys 117
participant cooperation 14
research-on-research 250
sample effects 136–7, 138
strengths and weaknesses 204
customer experience and satisfaction research 22–6, 114
data analysis 63, 64, 68
focus groups 80
forums and discussions 78
international research 208, 214–15
qualitative research 99–100
surveys 133
data analytics 17, 19, 25, 227
data collection 3–4, 6, 15
ethnographic data 85–6
history of mobile research 7, 8
international research 208–9, 214
mixed-mode research 115
mobile diaries 88
paradata 129–30
personally identifiable data 241
qualitative research 68, 84, 99, 101
quantitative research 103–4, 112
retail research 18, 22
see alsointerviews; passive data; surveys
data overload 63
data protection 197, 198, 214, 238, 241, 243
data security 156, 214, 243
depth interviews 56, 58, 80–1, 87
developing markets 6–8, 65–6, 104–5, 144, 221, 267, 269
in-home placement tests 113
internet coverage 260
mCAPI 150
mobile payments 262
mobile penetration rate 259
mobile subscriptions 160, 161
retail measurement 115
SMS 108, 219
tracking studies 27
device agnostic researchseeplatform agnostic research
diaries 7, 15, 56, 58, 64, 83, 87–90, 263
apps 143
briefing participants 98
data analysis 99

INDEX289
data collection 84
definition of 274
feature phones 35
passive tracking 95
platform selection 101
quantitative 113
shoppers 18, 21
WE-research compared with 92
discussions 56, 58, 60, 70, 71–8, 82
definition of 274
ethical issues 81
international research 210
research communities 202
display audits 20
DoCoMo 7
dual frame samples 166–7, 249
duration of projects 96–7, 101
Earls, Mark 92
Elipss 113
emails 131–2, 197, 201, 203, 226
Endomondo 186
engagement activities 202
environmental sensors 44, 190, 272
Ericsson 5, 41
ESOMAR 103–4, 160, 168, 195–6, 238, 239, 240, 243,
268
ethical issues 14, 95, 237–8, 239–45
B2B research 30
checklist 244
forums, discussions and focus groups 81
mCATI 168
mystery shopping 114
passive data 181
qualitative research 66, 69
ethnography 7, 15, 56, 58, 68, 83, 84–7, 263
apps 143
data analysis 64, 99
definition of 272
ethical issues 237
ethnographic data 55, 62, 85–6, 202, 272
international research 210
lack of training 63
mobile diaries compared with 90
mobile shopping 233
passive tracking 95
platform selection 101
WE-research 92
Ethos 84
Experian 187
face-to-face research 4
brand tracking 27
converting to mobile 135–6
depth interviews 80
feature phones 61
international research 221
retail research 16, 18–19
tablets 56
see alsointerviews
Facebook 73, 234, 239, 258, 260, 261
feature phones 6, 8, 34–5, 36, 37, 41, 52
access panels 195
common features 42
definition of 272
international research 209, 215
mCAPI 149
qualitative research 61
quantitative research 106, 107
sample and mode effects 134
surveys 137, 139, 143–4
FitBit 186, 257
Flash 76, 79, 272
Flurry 39, 111, 187, 227
focus groups 56, 58, 61, 70, 78–80, 82
conventional research 60
ethical issues 81
international research 210
lack of training 63
mixed-mode research 175
research communities 202
forums 56, 58, 70, 71–8, 81, 82, 272
4G 6, 129, 271
common features 42
mCAPI 10
tablets 35
Foursquare 261
Galaxy Gear 258
gamification 272
gaming 255, 256, 261
Garmin Vivofit 33, 186, 257, 264, 275
Gartner 35, 253, 269
Gatorade 92–4
geofencing 48, 253, 272
mobile only research 172
observational research 263–4
shopping 18, 22, 91
surveys 110, 114, 145
geographic tracking 181, 182–3
geolocation 48, 272
limitations of 51
shopping 16, 18, 22
surveys 110
see alsoGPS; location
geotagging 273
globalization 206–7
Glympse 41, 48
Google 45, 188, 225, 228, 234, 271
see alsoAndroid
Google Analytics 227, 228
Google Glass 18, 22, 33, 56, 60, 185, 254, 257, 258, 273
Google Goggles 254
Google Hangouts 38, 80
Google Play 271
GoPro 60, 190, 257

290INDEX
GoToMeeting 38
GPS (Global Positioning Satellite) 33, 48–9, 253, 269
apps 44, 143
customer satisfaction 24
definition of 273
geographic tracking 182–3
limitations of 51
location within a site 184, 185
Mappiness Project 25
mystery shopping 114
passive data 6, 111, 180, 189
phone only studies 173
quantitative research 105
shopping 18, 19, 91
surveys 133
see alsogeolocation
Grinder 48
GRIT Reports 11, 34, 41, 249, 268
guidelines 239
gyroscopes 42, 44, 189, 273
halo effects 22
Hofmeyr, Jan 25
homework 56, 60, 274
HTC 7, 33
HTML 273
HTML5 76, 273
Hu, Sean S. 164
iBeacon 24, 50, 91, 185, 234, 253, 257, 273
images
briefing participants 98
data analysis 63, 68, 100
ethnographic data 84, 85
forums and discussions 76–7, 78
informed consent 242
legal issues 66, 91, 95
mCAPI 152
mixed-mode research 176
mobile diaries 88, 90
mobile only research 112, 114, 172
passive data collection 189, 190, 257–8
personally identifiable data 241
privacy issues 237, 241
qualitative research 55, 68
research communities 202
safety concerns 240
size of 76
surveys 129
tablets 62
see alsolife-logging cameras
Implicit Association Testing (IAT) 29
in-home placement tests 113
‘in the moment’ research 4, 5, 31, 94, 135, 267, 269
apps 141
customer satisfaction 24
geofencing 253
mCAPI 149
qualitative research 55
quantitative research 106, 107, 112
shopping 18, 92
SMS studies 7
surveys 137
incentives 72, 81, 97, 141, 144
informed consent 14, 95, 240, 242, 244
app-based surveys 117
client lists 197, 198
ethnography 86
location-based services 254
passive data 181, 191
third parties 67
inhibitors to market research 265
InMarket 50
InMobi 234
insight communities 56, 58, 120, 199, 232
installed base 36, 41, 47, 52, 106, 273
instant messaging (IM) 201, 203, 273
Intel 225
intellectual property rights 30, 81
international mobile research 8, 144, 206–21
International Telecommunications Union (ITU) 5, 160,
259, 260, 269, 273
internet 5, 8, 260
access panels 194
apps 44
developing markets 105
high-speed 6
international research 210, 211, 213
mCAPI 153–4
mobile diaries 89
mobile web 37, 43–4, 52
passive data collection 189
quantitative research 107, 109
tablets 35, 62
usage tracking 188
see alsoWi-Fi
interviews
CAPI 10, 149, 150, 159, 271
CATI 4, 38, 104, 119, 136–7, 160–70, 221, 249, 260,
267
conventional research 60
depth 56, 58, 80–1, 87
‘in the moment’ 5
mCATI 4, 163–70, 273
retail research 17
see alsomCAPI
iOS 13, 34, 45–6, 52, 272, 273
market share 47
mCAPI 157
smartphone only studies 173
surveys 108
tablets 36
iPad 8, 33, 35, 46, 155, 248, 273
iPhone 7, 33, 231–2, 268, 273
global sales 41
iOS 45

INDEX291
Siri 254, 276
surveys 122, 129
usage tracking 188
Ipsos ASI 26
iTunes 45, 271
Jana 6–8, 262
Jawbone 257
Kearon, John 92
landlines 160–1, 162, 163, 164–5, 166–7, 170, 249
language issues 100, 209–10, 213, 217
launching a survey 131–2, 144–5
Leadbeater, Charles 92
legal issues 66, 95, 238–9, 244
B2B research 30
international research 209, 214, 217
mCATI 168, 169
mystery shopping 21
usability testing 230
usage data 228
life events, tracking 182
life-logging cameras 18, 22, 95, 105, 263
LightSpeed 192
LinkedIn 258
Lintern, Mat 27, 142
Linux 229
localization 213
Locately 4, 19
location
ethnographic data 85
location analytics 19, 273
satisfaction surveys 24
sound location 256
tracking 181–8
see alsogeolocation; GPS
location-based services (LBS) 47–51, 52, 91, 111, 181,
253–4, 273
Luma 26
M-Pesa 41, 219–20
manufacturers 40–1
Mappiness Project 24–5
Market Research in the Mobile World (MRMW) 268
Market Research Society (MRS) 243, 268
Market Xcel 152–3
mass anthropology 84
mCAPI (mobile Computer Aided Personal Interviewing)
4, 8, 10, 38, 106, 149–59, 264–5
apps 110, 143
benefits of 149–50
considerations 153–9
definition of 273
mobile only research 112
tablet only studies 173
mCATI (mobile Computer Aided Telephone
Interviewing) 4, 163–70, 273
mCommerce 20–1, 233
media measurement 111, 113, 190
Meeker, Mary 234
‘member checking’ 86
Memoto 18, 60, 95, 190, 257
MESH Planning method 93–4
messaging apps 219, 220, 258
metrics 234–5
micro-payments 262, 273
micro-surveys 23, 274
Microsoft 46, 108, 225
mixed-mode research 3, 10, 171–9, 250
definition of 274
ethnography 87
forums, discussions and focus groups 70–1
quantitative research 115–17, 119
research communities 202
surveys 120–1, 138–40
MMR (agency) 27, 140–2
MMS (multimedia messaging service) 38, 42, 43, 61, 78,
274
mobile applicationsseeapps
mobile banking and payments 8, 41, 219–20, 227, 262
mobile devices 11, 225, 230–2, 252
access panels 194, 195
background information 188–90
benefits of qualitative research 55–6
client lists 198–9
definition of 274
familiarity with 87
international research 210, 211, 212
manufacturers 40–1
mCAPI 149, 150, 154, 155, 156–8, 159
mixed-mode research 115, 116, 171, 172–3, 179
qualitative research 60, 61–2, 68, 69
quantitative research 105–9, 118
research communities 200, 202
research-on-research 250, 251
surveys 122, 129, 140
technological developments 252–8
types of 32–6
ubiquity of 5, 217–18, 259
usage tracking 188
see alsofeature phones; smartphones; tablets
mobile diariesseediaries
mobile ecosystem 11–12, 39–42, 112, 211, 225–36
Mobile Marketing Research Association (MMRA) 66, 168,
268, 274
mobile only research 9–10, 77, 111–15, 117, 120, 164–5,
171–3, 274
mobile service providers 39–40, 227, 232, 238, 274
mobile shopping 20–1, 233
mobile voice 38
mobile web 37, 43–4, 52
see alsointernet
MobileMeasure 4, 26, 141, 247
mode effects 134–5, 136, 137, 139, 176, 177–9, 195
moderators 71, 73, 80

292INDEX
moments of truth 5
motion sensors 256–7, 274
Motorola 41
multi-select grids 247, 250
multimedia
mCAPI 10
mixed-mode research 176
quantitative research 107, 114
retail research 16
smartphones 62
surveys 133, 137
see alsoimages; video
multiple mobile subscriptions 259
MyFitnessPal 41, 262
mystery shopping 21, 114, 151, 233
Near Field Communication (NFC) 42, 49–50, 182, 183,
186, 274
networks 212, 220
NewMR.org 254, 269
Nielsen 190
Nintendo Wii 256
Nokia 33, 41, 45, 46, 230–2, 268
observational techniques 263–4
Ofcom 164
‘on the shoulder’ research 56, 57, 59–60
one stop solutions 122
operating systems (OS) 34, 44–7, 232–3
activity monitoring 189
apps 110
definition of 275
mCAPI 157
tablets 36
see alsoAndroid; iOS
opportunity to see 182
panels 120, 121, 192–6, 199, 201, 203
apps 118, 143, 196
B2B research 30
development phases 266
ethnography and diaries 96
growth of 205
international research 209, 215
mCATI 167
mixed-mode research 116
mobile only surveys 117
one stop solutions 122
participant cooperation 14
professional respondents 263
research-on-research 250
retail research 17
sample effects 136–7, 138
strengths and weaknesses 204
paradata 129–30, 275
parallel depth interviews 81
partial tracking 183
participant cooperation 14
participant research 17, 56, 57, 58, 61, 62
partners, selection of local 216–17
passive data 3, 4, 6, 15, 129, 180–91
apps 110
data analysis 63
definition of 275
growth of 8
legal issues 239
mixed-mode research 116
mobile only research 172
observational research 263
passive recording 257–8
passive tracking 56, 59, 83, 94–5, 111, 180, 181–8
qualitative research 56, 62, 102
quantitative research 9, 106, 110–11, 112, 114
recruitment of participants 117–18
research communities 200
retail research 16, 21, 233
surveys 137
PCs
access panels 266
ethnography 87
exclusion of 140
focus groups 79
forums and discussions 76, 77
in-home placement tests 113
mixed-mode research 115, 116, 171, 172, 174, 175,
176, 177–8
research-on-research 247, 249, 250, 251
surveys 12, 13, 108, 123, 125, 131, 137–8, 139
PDAs (Personal Digital Assistants) 7, 36, 275
Pennay, D. 162, 164, 165
PepsiCo 92–4
personally identifiable data (PID) 95, 241, 242, 243, 244
Pew Research Center 5, 104, 269
phablets 36, 173, 275
mCAPI 155
mixed-mode research 174
quantitative research 106, 118
Phillips 228–9
phone only studies 172–3
photographsseeimages
pinging 163, 275
platform agnostic research 15, 31, 139–40, 232, 272
ad testing 27
development phases 266
focus groups 79
forums and discussions 76
mixed-mode research 10, 115, 172, 173
qualitative 68
surveys 108–9, 137
platform selection 100, 101
Portable People Meter (PPM) 190
predictive analytics 25, 227, 229, 236
print advertising 26, 251
privacy issues 14, 237–8, 241, 260–1, 268
B2B research 30
client lists 198

INDEX293
international research 209
location-based services 253
passive data 111, 181, 258
product testing 28, 113
professional respondents 263, 275
Psion 230–1
pure play 234, 275
QNX 46
QR (Quick Response) codes 234, 254–5, 261, 264, 275
mobile diaries 90
mystery shopping 114
recruitment of participants 117, 203
shopper studies 91
surveys 144
qualitative research 4, 10–11, 15, 55–69, 83–4, 101–2
access panels 193
asynchronous 70–1, 271
benefits of 55–6
briefing participants 98
data analysis 99–100
design and implementation 68
feature phones 35
international 208, 209–10, 216
key issues 62–7
location tracking 185
mixed-mode research 176
mobile diaries 88
mobile voice 38
observational 264
recruitment of participants 96
research communities 199, 202
role of mobile devices 61–2
shopping 17, 18, 90
SMS 43
synchronous 70–1, 78, 277
types of 56–60
WE-research 92
see alsodiaries; discussions; ethnography; focus groups;
forums
quantified self 21, 56, 59, 87, 186, 257, 275
quantified shopping 18
quantitative research 3, 9–10, 28–9, 103–19
access panels 193
briefing participants 98
data collection 84
international 208, 210
location tracking 184–5
mixed-mode research 176
mobile diaries 88
mobile voice 38
research communities 199, 201
shopping 17, 18, 90
WE-research 92
see alsosurveys
questionnairesseesurveys
questions 124, 125–6, 130, 178, 246
quota sampling 193, 197, 198
random digit dialling (RDD) 161–2, 165, 166, 167, 170
random sampling 161, 193, 197–8
recruitment of participants 65, 68, 96, 116–18, 145, 197,
203–4, 218
regulation 14, 21, 30, 66, 238–9
see alsolegal issues
research communities 4, 11, 15, 199–203, 205
apps 118
development phases 266
mCATI 167
mobile only surveys 117
qualitative research 56, 58, 60
strengths and weaknesses 204
research methods 243–4, 262–4
Research Now 4, 26, 192, 248
research-on-research (RoR) 14–15, 131, 177, 179,
246–51, 275
retail research 16–22, 115, 184, 233
see alsoshopping
return on investment (ROI) 190, 234, 235, 276
Revelation 4, 84
rewards 72
RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) 50, 182, 183, 184,
185, 276
Rosling, Hans 105
RunKeeper 41, 48, 186
safety issues 14, 66, 81, 95, 240, 244
sampling 14, 29–30, 113, 161, 193, 197–8
sample effects 134–5, 136–7, 138, 139, 176–7, 204
sample frames 163, 165–6, 176–7
sample size 183–4
Samsung 7, 33, 41, 225, 258
screen resolution 276
screen size 6, 13, 28, 125, 129, 276
mCAPI 155
mixed-mode research 175
mobile web 37, 43
phablets 36
surveys 137
tablets 35, 62
scripting 122, 156, 276
sharing of information 260–1, 262
ShopKick 51, 111, 145
shopping 17–18, 20–1, 94–5, 261
mystery shopping 21, 114, 151, 233
shopper studies 58, 83, 90–2, 233
SIM cards 109, 259, 276
Siri 254, 276
skipping technologies 265
Skype 38, 80
smartphones 8, 33–4, 36, 232, 276
access panels 195
common features 42
developed markets 104
growth of 4, 118
international research 209, 215, 221
mCAPI 155

294INDEX
smartphones (Continued)
mixed-mode research 174, 175
mobile ethnography 84
mobile shopping 20
operating systems 45
QR codes 254
qualitative research 61–2, 68
quantitative research 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 118
sample effects 134, 136
screen size 6, 13
smartphone only studies 173
surveys 108, 139, 247
see alsomobile devices
SMS (short messaging service) 5, 9, 37–8, 43, 219, 276
avoiding annoyance 241
common features 42
customer satisfaction 25
developing markets 6–8
feature phones 34, 61, 144
forums and discussions 78
history of research 7
MESH Planning method 93, 94
mobile only research 172, 173
mobile service providers 40
quantitative research 106, 107, 108
research communities 201, 203
sample effects 136
survey invitations 132, 140, 144, 197
Sweaty Moments study 23, 89
tablets 35
SnapChat 258
social gaming 261
social media 25, 73, 188, 201, 203, 220, 258, 268
social sharing 262
society 258–62
Software as a Service (SaaS) 43, 121, 276
software choice 156
SoLoMo 260, 276
sound, use of 255–6
speech recognition 254, 277
standardization 4, 34, 207
apps 6, 44
operating systems 34, 45, 46
surveys 13, 109, 122
subscriptions 40, 160, 161, 259
support 99, 132, 156, 159
Surowiecki, James 272
Survey Sampling International 192
surveys 9–10, 103, 106, 108, 120–46
advanced quantitative research 28
apps 109–10
brand tracking 27
converting studies to mobile 133–8
custom-built 122, 145–6
customer satisfaction 23, 24, 25, 114
design of 122–30, 145
device agnostic 108–9
feature phones 34–5
history of research 7
length of 12, 27, 31, 123, 124, 178, 247, 251, 262
mixed-mode research 3
number of questions 246
PC-based 12, 13
platforms 121–2
profiling 96
project stages 130–3
recruitment of participants 117
research communities 200, 201
research-on-research 246–51
retail research 17
SMS 38, 43
Sweaty Moments study 23, 89
Symbian 45, 46
synchronous online qualitative research 70–1, 78, 277
tablets 33, 35–6, 277
conventional research 60
focus groups 79
growth of 4, 6, 8, 118
international research 209
mCAPI 151, 155, 173, 264–5
mixed-mode research 174
mobile ethnography 84
operating systems 52
qualitative research 56, 62
quantitative research 105, 106, 109, 118
retail research 19, 20
surveys 137, 138
tablet only studies 173
Tapscott, Don 229
telecommunications companies (telcos) 197, 226–7, 277
telephone interviewsseeCATI
television 26
Tesco 19, 150–2
testing of surveys 130–1
text messagingseeSMS
third parties 41, 67, 143, 203, 227, 242, 244
Threadless.com 230
threads 73–4, 277
3D animation 255
3G 5, 6, 108, 271
common features 42
mCAPI 10
mixed-mode research 175
tablets 35
timers 24–5
Tobii Glasses 18, 185, 257
touchscreens 6, 42, 231
mobile web 37, 43
research-on-research 249
smartphones 33
tablets 35, 62
tower location 49, 51, 183, 185, 189, 272
tracking
brands and advertising 27–8
consumption 113

INDEX295
feature phones 61
passive 56, 59, 83, 94–5, 111, 180, 181–8
research communities 201
usage 44, 187–8
traffic planning 182
training 156, 158
translation 209–10, 213
Twitter 239, 258
unintentional mobile 7, 9, 26, 108, 139–40, 179, 195,
277
URLs (Uniform Resource Locators) 117, 144, 203, 277
usability testing 21, 226, 230
usage data 28, 44, 187–8, 226–8, 230, 231, 232, 233
user testing 28, 230, 231
USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) 25,
38, 106, 107, 108, 144, 219, 277
video
apps 44
briefing participants 98
common phone features 42
customer experience 23
data analysis 68, 100, 269
depth interviews 80
ethnographic data 85, 86
focus groups 79
forums and discussions 78
informed consent 242
legal issues 66, 91, 95
mCAPI 10
mixed-mode research 175, 176
mobile diaries 88, 90
mobile only research 112, 114, 172
passive data collection 189, 190, 257–8
privacy issues 237, 241
qualitative research 55, 63–4, 68
retail research 17, 21
safety concerns 240
size of 76
surveys 129
virtual network operators 40
voice services 254, 277
VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) 38, 80, 277
WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) 5, 42, 277
WE-research 11, 56, 58, 83, 92, 277
wearable technologies 33, 60, 257–8, 277
location tracking 185
quantitative research 105
retail research 18, 22
see alsoGoogle Glass
Webex 81
WeChat 219, 220, 255, 258
WhatsApp 220, 258
Wi-Fi 6, 42, 64, 65, 108, 109, 253
ethical issues 238
location tracking 49, 183, 185
mCAPI 10, 153, 154
tablets 35
see alsointernet
Williams, Anthony 229
Windows Phone 33, 46, 157
Wu, Liang 234
Xbox Kinect 256

WILEY END USER LICENSE
AGREEMENT
Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley’s ebook
EULA.