
==================================================
EXTRACTED FROM: True North - Discover Your Authentic Leadership.pdf
PAGES: 290
==================================================





True North
Discover Your 
Authentic Leadership
Bill George
With Peter Sims
Foreword by David Gergen
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page v

ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page ii

True North
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page i

ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page ii

A WARREN BENNIS BOOK
This collection of books is devoted exclusively to new
and exemplary contributions to management thought
and practice. The books in this series are addressed to
thoughtful leaders, executives, and managers of all 
organizations who are struggling with and committed
to responsible change. My hope and goal is to spark
new intellectual capital by sharing ideas positioned at
an angle to conventional thought—in short, to publish
books that disturb the present in the service of a
better future.
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page iii

BOOKS IN THE WARREN BENNIS SIGNATURE SERIES
BrandenSelf-Esteem at Work
Mitroff, DentonA Spiritual Audit of Corporate America
ScheinThe Corporate Culture Survival Guide
SampleThe Contrarian’s Guide to Leadership
Lawrence, NohriaDriven
Cloke, GoldsmithThe End of Management and the Rise of 
Organizational Democracy
GlenLeading Geeks
Cloke, GoldsmithThe Art of Waking People Up
GeorgeAuthentic Leadership
KohlrieserHostage at the Table
RhodeMoral Leadership
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page iv

True North
Discover Your 
Authentic Leadership
Bill George
With Peter Sims
Foreword by David Gergen
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page v

Copyright © 2007 by Bill George. All rights reserved.
Published by Jossey-Bass
A Wiley Imprint
989 Market Street, San Francisco, CA 94103-1741—www.josseybass.com
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning,
or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States
Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the publisher, or authorization
through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc.,
222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the Web
at www.copyright.com. Requests to the publisher for permission should be addressed to the
Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030,
201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008, or online at  www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Readers should be aware that Internet Web sites offered as citations and/or sources for further
information may have changed or disappeared between the time this was written and when it
is read.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their
best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect
to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may
be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and
strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with
a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss
of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental,
consequential, or other damages.
Jossey-Bass books and products are available through most bookstores. To contact Jossey-Bass
directly call our Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 800-956-7739, outside the
U.S. at 317-572-3986, or fax 317-572-4002.
Jossey-Bass also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that
appears in print may not be available in electronic books.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
George, Bill (William W.)
True North : discover your authentic leadership / Bill George with Peter Sims ; 
foreword by David Gergen. — 1st. ed.
p. cm. —  (Warren Bennis series)
Includes bibliographical references.
ISBN-13: 978-0-7879-8751-0 (cloth)
1. Leadership. 2. Organizational effectiveness. I. Sims, Peter. II. Title. 
HD57.7.G4582 2007
658.4'092—dc222006100386
Printed in the United States of America
FIRST EDITION
HB Printing10987654321
ffirs.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page vi

Contents
Acknowledgmentsix
The Authorsxi
Editor’s Notexiii
by Warren Bennis
Forewordxvii
by David Gergen
Introduction: True Northxxiii
Part One: Leadership Is a Journey1
1.The Journey to Authentic Leadership3
2.Why Leaders Lose Their Way27
3.Transformation From “I” to “We”43
Part Two: Discover Your 65
Authentic Leadership
4.Knowing Your Authentic Self67
5.Practicing Your Values and Principles85
6.What Motivates You to Be a Leader?103
7.Building Your Support Team117
8.Staying Grounded: Integrating Your Life133
vii
ftoc.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page vii

Part Three: Empowering People to Lead151
9.Leadership with Purpose and Passion153
10.Empowering People to Lead169
11.Honing Your Leadership Effectiveness185
Epilogue: The Fulfillment of Leadership201
Appendixes
A    Research Study on Development of 205
Authentic Leaders
BAuthentic Leaders Interviewed for True North209
CLeadership Exercises for Each Chapter219
References241
Index247
viiiCONTENTS
ftoc.qxp  1/17/07  8:25 PM  Page viii

ix
Acknowledgments
True Northis the result of collaboration with my coauthor, Peter
Sims, and my colleagues at Harvard Business School, Diana Mayer
and Andrew McLean. They have been tireless in their dedication
to exploring with me how people develop as authentic leaders, to
interviewing these leaders, and to assessing their inputs. Peter, in
particular, has proven to be a true collaborator; he has provided
exceptional understanding of the next generation of authentic lead-
ers and of the meaning and impact of authentic leadership. Diana
did a superb job in interviewing leaders across the United States
and sharpening our thinking. Andrew led the research methodol-
ogy, keeping our team on track with proper protocols and knowl-
edge of other leadership research studies. We also received very
valuable insights and guidance throughout the entire process from
Warren Bennis, our executive editor, as well as from Susan Williams
and Byron Schneider at Jossey-Bass.
We are especially grateful to the 125 leaders who offered their
personal  stories  and  their  perspectives  on  leadership  during  the
interviews,  and  their  willingness  to  share  with  the  current  and
future generations of authentic leaders and all those who want to
understand leading from the leader’s inside point of view. Without
their openness, this book would never have been possible.
During the editing process, John S. Rosenberg, Jean Martin, Jeff
George,  Penny  George,  Grace  Kahng,  David  Gergen,  Carolina
Helmick, Doug Baker, Chi Nguyen, and Matt Breitfelder were espe-
cially insightful in sharpening the text and the writing. Richard
Sheppard did outstanding work on the graphic designs. We also
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page ix

appreciate the inputs of Bill Buzenberg, Charlie Dimmler, Paula
Goldman, Daisy Wademan, Ryan Frederick, Ron Sonntag, Michal
Petrzela,  Matt  Cain,  Bryan  Droznes,  Kathleen  Kelly,  Jeannette
Lager, Renée Will George, Jon George, Christopher Gergen, Daniel
Salvadori, Julian Flannery, Scott Starr, Fawzi Jumean, Ori Brafman,
and Gigi Sims. Special thanks go to Carol Mierau, my assistant at
Medtronic, and Kathy Farren, my assistant at Harvard, for all their
efforts on the book and research project. My colleagues at Harvard—
Nitin  Nohria,  Jay  Lorsch,  David  Gergen,  Joe  Badaracco,  Lynn
Paine, Srikant Datar, Ronnie Heifitz, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, Howard
Stevenson, Joe Bower, Scott Snook, the members of the Leadership
and Corporate Accountability teaching group—and my MBA stu-
dents at Harvard have been especially helpful to me in my under-
standing of leadership and in support of my efforts, as have Peter’s
colleagues at Stanford, Charles O’Reilly, Joel Peterson, and Beth
Benjamin.
None of this would have been possible without the unwavering
support, encouragement, insights, and patience of my wife, Penny,
from whom I have learned so much about people and leading them.
To all of you, Peter and I are deeply grateful.
xACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Bill George, Warren Bennis, and Peter Sims
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page x

The Authors
Bill George was chief executive of Medtronic, the world’s leading
medical technology company, from 1991 until 2001 and chairman
of the board from 1996 to 2002. Under his leadership, Medtronic’s
market capitalization grew from $1.1 billion to $60 billion, averag-
ing 35 percent a year. Currently, he is professor of management
practice at Harvard Business School and serves on the board of
directors of ExxonMobil, Goldman Sachs, and Novartis. He has
also served on the board of Target Corporation.
He is the author of the best-selling book Authentic Leadership:
Rediscovering the Secrets of Creating Lasting Value(Jossey-Bass, 2003).
He has made frequent appearances on television and radio, includ-
ing The  Today  Show,  The  News  Hour  with  Jim  Lehrer,  CNBC,
Bloomberg News,and public radio. His articles have appeared in
Fortune,the Wall  Street  Journal,  Harvard  Business  Review,and
numerous other publications.
He has been named one of the “Top 25 Business Leaders of the
Past 25 Years” by PBS, “Executive of the Year—2001” by the Acad-
emy of Management, and “Director of the Year—2001–02” by the
National  Association  of  Corporate  Directors.  He  is  currently  a
trustee of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and
World Economic Forum USA and has been board chair of Allina
Health System, Abbott-Northwestern Hospital, Greater Twin Cities
United Way, and Advamed.
Earlier in his career, he was an executive with Honeywell and
Litton Industries and served in the U.S. Department of Defense. He
has been executive-in-residence at Yale School of Management.
xi
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xi

He received his BS in industrial engineering from Georgia Tech and
MBA  from  Harvard  University,  where  he  was  a  Baker  Scholar,
and an honorary doctorate from Bryant University.
Peter Sims helped found the London office of Summit Partners, a
leading global investment firm, and established “Leadership Per-
spectives,” a course at the Stanford Graduate School of Business
while he was a student there. He also served previously as part of
the Deloitte Touche Tomatsu Global Strategy Team.
Sims has served as a member of the President’s Visiting Com-
mittee at Bowdoin College and on the board of directors of Sum-
mer Search. He received his MBA from Stanford and an AB,magna
cum laude, from Bowdoin. He lives in San Francisco.
xiiTHE AUTHORS
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xii

Editor’s Note
As the world becomes ever more dangerous and our problems more
complex and dire, we long for truly distinguished leaders, men and
women who deserve our respect and loyalty. Instead, we have suf-
fered far too much bad leadership in recent years. The business
media have exposed one scandal after another—criminally greedy
CEOs,  boards  that  do  little  more  than  rubber-stamp  executive
whims, companies willing to trade customers’ lives for profits, and
corrupt and partisan political leaders. Too many of our so-called
leaders have functioned best as subjects of the brand of satire per-
fected on television by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert.
But Bill George and Peter Sims’s True Northis about a very dif-
ferent kind of leader, the kind that we can be proud to follow. In
this ambitious and important book, one of America’s most respected
corporate leaders and his talented younger collaborator show that
ethically grounded leadership is not only possible, it is often the
most effective leadership of all. It is an optimistic message that falls
on grateful ears.
To write their guide to authentic leadership, George and Sims
interviewed 125 leaders in many arenas. The authors chose men
and  women  whose  leadership  appeared  to  be  grounded  in  their
character. The subjects range in age from twenty-three to ninety-
three and have distinguished themselves in corporate life, as entre-
preneurs, as social innovators, in political life, and in the study of
leadership itself. Some, like statesman and former Bechtel head
George Shultz, have contributed in many fields. Some, like Star-
bucks founder Howard Schultz and educator and frequent political
xiii
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xiii

commentator David Gergen, are household names. Others are less
well known but have quietly made important contributions to our
lives, including young Wendy Kopp, founder of Teach For America.
Financial entrepreneur Charles Schwab, Avon CEO Andrea Jung,
Amgen head Kevin Sharer, philosopher of design David Kelley,
Judy Vredenburgh of Big Brothers, Big Sisters—all the leaders who
appear  in  True  Northoffer  firsthand  insights  into  the  nature  of
authentic leadership and the way to develop it.
One of the revelations of True Northis how critical these lead-
ers’ personal stories are in shaping their leadership. Time after time,
those interviewed describe a turning point in their lives—a cru-
cible, I call it—that transformed them into the leaders they are
today. These tales of how they became the people they are reveal
their most deeply held values, their most passionate beliefs. Howard
Schultz recalls how, as a child of seven, he was forever changed by
the news that his delivery-man father had slipped on a sheet of ice
and broken his ankle. The accident lost Schultz’s father his job and
the family its health insurance and economic security. That experi-
ence led Schultz to create a global business, one built not on lattes
and frappucinos but on the conviction that every worker deserves
respect and health care.
“Those early memories are with me all the time,” Schultz tells
the  authors.  “I  wanted  to  build  the  kind  of  company  my  father
never had a chance to work for, where you would be valued and
respected, no matter where you came from, the color of your skin,
or your level of education. Memories of my father’s lost health care
led to Starbucks’ becoming the first American company to provide
health insurance for every employee, including part-time workers.”
Such autobiographical stories continue to inspire the leaders
who lived them, keeping their moral compasses pointed toward
True North. The tales are inspiring for readers as well and mar-
velous to read. Novartis Chairman and CEO Daniel Vasella’s story
is a saga of Dickensian proportions. It begins with the Swiss-born
Vasella’s achingly lonely childhood, filled with physical pain and
xivEDITOR’S NOTE
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xiv

emotional loss. At the age of eight, he was struck with tuberculosis
and meningitis. He was sent away to recuperate for a year—a year
in which his parents never visited him. As a teenager, he joined a
rowdy  motorcycle  gang  that  drank  too  much  and  fought  too
quickly. But Vasella and the other leaders of True Northare not
defeated by their struggles and setbacks. Instead, they learn from
them and find their futures in them.
In his gang, Vasella recognized his own ambition and began to
fashion a career in which he had more control. He went to medical
school and later rose to the top of one of the world’s leading health
care  companies.  Today  his  leadership  is  grounded  in  his  personal
knowledge  of  poverty  and  ill  health.  “As  CEO,”  Vasella  told  the
authors, “I have the leverage to impact the lives of many more peo-
ple. I can do what is right, based on my moral compass. At the end of
the day, the only thing that matters is what we do for other people.”
There are more than one hundred such stories in this fascinat-
ing, important book. Some are funny, some are cautionary, all are
compelling. After a friend of mine read True Northbefore publica-
tion, he noted how different it is from most business books. Instead
of simply telling readers how to get ahead, True Northoffers a prac-
tical five-part program for developing their best selves and shows
how authenticity and integrity shape great leadership. My friend
wants to give the book to his children to read.
As CEO of medical-device giant Medtronic, Bill George was
known as much for his integrity as for his business success. Now on
the faculty of the Harvard Business School, he (with coauthor Peter
Sims) has written a worthy successor to his best-selling Authentic
Leadership.Building on that book’s wisdom, True Northgoes even
further, revealing just how powerful authentic leadership can be—
and, best of all, how to achieve it.
Warren Bennis
Santa Monica, California
October 2006
EDITOR’S NOTExv
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xv

This book is dedicated to my wife, Penny,
my faithful partner for the past thirty-seven years,
who has helped me stay on course to True North, and
to our sons, Jeff and Jon, and our daughters-in-law, Renée and Jeannette,
who represent the best of the new generation of authentic leaders.
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xvi

Foreword
Growing up in the shadow of a great university, I always believed
that the smartest person made the best leader. That was only nat-
ural in an academic family where my dad was a professor of mathe-
matics and two of my older brothers became professors of medicine
and psychology. Our family and friends placed great store in intel-
lectual achievement, so I just assumed that smart people were the
best  at  most  things,  including  leadership.  Boy,  did  I  have  some
things to learn.
Moving to Washington in my late twenties, I began my educa-
tion  in  the  real  world  in  earnest.  Over  a  period  of  some  three
decades, I had the privilege of serving as an adviser to four presi-
dents in the White House and working alongside leaders in gov-
ernment, the press, business, and other fields. Many of them were
outstanding individuals, and I shall always cherish their friendships.
They also taught me a lot about leadership. Yes, there is no substi-
tute for ability: to lead others, you must know what you are doing,
have  deep  curiosity,  and  develop  keen  judgment.  Competence
counts. But what ultimately distinguishes the great leaders from the
mediocre are the personal, inner qualities—qualities that are hard
to define but are essential for success, qualities that each of us must
develop for ourselves, and qualities that are explored here in these
pages  with  great  clarity  and  insight  by  one  of  America’s  most
authentic leaders, Bill George. This is a gem of a book that will
guide you on your own journey.
To illustrate the importance of you embracing your own True
North, let me tell you a bit more about what I discovered along the
xvii
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xvii

way. In the early 1970s, coming out of law school and then the
navy, I went to work for Richard Nixon and stayed in his White
House for three and a half years, ultimately running his speech-
writing and research team. My mentor, Ray Price, helped me to
understand that Nixon was one of the most complex men to reach
the presidency. He had a bright, luminous side that to this day has
me convinced he was one of the best strategists the country has ever
elected. Nixon could figuratively go up on a mountaintop and see
twenty  or  thirty  years  into  the  future  and  then  decide  how  the
forces of history should be nudged to favor America’s national secu-
rity. Thus his trip to China and a good many other initiatives. If
that were all there was to Nixon, he would have become one of our
better presidents.
Tragically, Nixon also had another side that was dark, bitter,
and  twisted.  The  longer  one  worked  with  him,  the  clearer  it
became that he had inner demons that he had never conquered
and perhaps never understood. But the resentments and furies
that poured forth caused no end of harm: he set up teams inside
the White House to pursue his enemies in national security, real
and perceived, and those teams eventually focused their efforts on
electoral politics. The crimes that were committed in his name
inevitably seeped into the public arena, and eventually the whole
enterprise collapsed. He became the architect of his own demise—
a prime example of a man who had all the makings for the presi-
dency but failed because he never developed what it took inside
himself.
In the years that followed, I worked for Jerry Ford and then
Ronald Reagan in the White House. Neither had any pretenses of
being as smart as Nixon, but each one turned out to be a better
leader, especially Reagan. Ford knew exactly who he was, under-
stood his weaknesses as well as his strengths, and—because he was
so  well  anchored—was  comfortable  in  appointing  people  he
thought smarter than he was to the cabinet. Within the brief time
of his presidency, he assembled one of the best cabinets in modern
times. While he stumbled more than once, he looks better and bet-
xviiiFOREWORD
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xviii

ter through the rearview mirror—a man of integrity who brought
honor to the White House and healing to the country.
Reagan, like Ford, had figured out who he was and liked it. He
didn’t just feel comfortable in his own skin; he felt serene. Reagan
not only had a compass for his life but a compass for his political
beliefs, and he communicated both with a contagious optimism
that stirred people across the land. Whether or not one agreed with
his  policies,  it  is  pretty  clear  that  he  was  the  best  leader  in  the
White House since Franklin Roosevelt. Reagan didn’t pretend to
be the smartest man to serve, but he was smart enough. Ultimately,
however, a key to his success was how closely he fit the description
that Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. once applied to FDR: “A second
class mind but a first class temperament.”
Dial forward for a moment to Bill Clinton, the fourth president
I’ve been privileged to serve. Most Americans now recognize that
Clinton is truly gifted: he has mental and verbal capacities that far
exceed almost everyone else on the public stage today. More than
once, I had the same experience with him in the Oval Office as oth-
ers: during an engaged conversation with three or four people, he
could simultaneously be talking back and forth while also quietly
filling out a New York Timescrossword puzzle. More impressive, he
sought out information and perspectives across the spectrum—not
just his partisans but many others, especially those who tradition-
ally lack a seat at the tables of power such as blacks, Hispanics, and
women. He had what I have called “360-degree leadership”—an
increasingly important quality for every leader in today’s complex
world—and it enormously enhanced his judgment. In the end, he
made some excellent policy choices.
Yet, as the country knows in excruciating detail, Clinton also
had cracks in his character that came to haunt him. From what I
saw he was working hard to repair those cracks and didn’t quite
make it; I always felt that if he had come to the presidency a few
years later in life, he would have been a more integrated, whole per-
son whose arc would have been higher. In Eyewitness to Power,a
book I published in 2000 (and in terms that show how closely my
FOREWORDxix
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xix

own views of leadership are aligned with those of Bill George), I
wrote sympathetically,
Instead of a struggle between light and dark [as with Nixon], my sense is
that Clinton’s central problem has been the lack of an inner compass. He
has  360-degree  vision  but  no  true  north.  He  isn’t  yet  fully  grounded
within. . . . [He] isn’t exactly sure who he is yet and tries to define himself
by how well others like him. That leads him into all sorts of contradictions,
and the view by others that he seems a constant mixture of strengths and
weaknesses.
His critics, of course, have much harsher assessments. This is
not the place to settle those arguments. What is clear to everyone
is that Clinton had so much promise and that, mostly because of
those cracks, his presidency fell achingly short of what might have
been. Even as it was, I continue to believe that he was a better pres-
ident than his critics will ever concede. In the years since leaving
the White House, let us note, he has also become more authentic
in the sense that Bill George means here—and as a result, he is
doing great good deeds for mankind.
What does all this add up to? Simply this: ability matters to a
president, but inner qualities matter even more. As historian David
McCullough  wrote  in  assessing  the  leadership  of  Harry  Truman:
“Character is the single most important asset of a president.” I would
add  this  thought:  that  character  without  capacity  usually  means
weakness in a leader, but capacity without character means danger.
Bill George and his talented younger collaborator in this book,
Peter Sims, make a persuasive argument that the journey toward
authentic leadership—that finding and pursuing your own True
North—is the key to leadership in all fields, whether in business,
government, or the nonprofit arena. I agree. Over the past decades,
I have had the opportunity to observe and sometimes counsel lead-
ers who have been in every walk of life, some young and some old,
some women and some men. For all of them, the authenticity that
Bill and Peter talk about here is essential to their success as leaders.
xxFOREWORD
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xx

And certainly no one knows better than Bill, whose own life story
is a model for others. He is now devoting much of his energy to
teaching and helping rising young leaders, and I have watched with
awe as he has talked to students at Harvard about authentic leader-
ship and their eyes have lit up.
What  he  says  here,  drawn  upon  the  life  experiences  of  the
125 leaders he and Peter have interviewed, is just the sort of thought-
ful, practical wisdom that every aspiring leader needs. They have
written not only an important sequel to Bill’s earlier, acclaimed book,
Authentic Leadership;they have also written an invaluable guide to
self-discovery that will serve generations to come. I wish you a good
read—and a good journey.
David Gergen
Cambridge, Massachusetts
October 2006
FOREWORDxxi
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxi

flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxii

Introduction
True North
What is yourTrue North?
Do you know what your life and your leadership are all about,
and when you are being true to yourself?
True North is the internal compass that guides you successfully
through life. It represents who you are as a human being at your deep-
est level. It is your orienting point—your fixed point in a spinning
world—that helps you stay on track as a leader. Your True North is
based on what is most important to you, your most cherished values,
your passions and motivations, the sources of satisfaction in your life.
Just  as  a  compass  points  toward  a  magnetic  pole,  your  True
North pulls you toward the purpose of your leadership. When you
follow your internal compass, your leadership will be authentic, and
people will naturally want to associate with you. Although others
may guide or influence you, your truth is derived from your life story,
and only you can determine what it should be.
Discovering your True North takes a lifetime of commitment
and learning. Each day, as you are tested in the world, you yearn to
look at yourself in the mirror and respect the person you see and the
life you have chosen to lead. Some days will be better than others,
but as long as you are true to who you are, you can cope with the
most difficult circumstances that life presents.
The world may have very different expectations for you and your
leadership  than  you  have  for  yourself.  Regardless  of  whether  you
are leading a small team or are at the top of a powerful organization,
you will be pressured by external forces to respond to their needs
and seduced by rewards for fulfilling those needs. These pressures and
xxiii
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxiii

seductions may cause you to detour from your True North. When
you get too far off course, your internal compass tells you that some-
thing is wrong and you need to reorient yourself. It requires courage
and resolve to resist the constant pressures and expectations con-
fronting you and to take corrective action when necessary.
Sara Lee CEO Brenda Barnes says: “The most important thing
about leadership is your character and the values that guide your
life.” She added,
If you are guided by an internal compass that represents your character and
the values that guide your decisions, you’re going to be fine. Let your val-
ues guide your actions and don’t ever lose your internal compass, because
everything isn’t black or white. There are a lot of gray areas in business.
When you are aligned with who you are, you find coherence
between  your  life  story  and  your  leadership.  As  psychologist
William James wrote a century ago, “I have often thought that the
best way to define a man’s character is to seek out the particular
mental or moral attitude in which . . . he felt himself most deeply
and intensively active and alive. At such moments, there is a voice
inside which speaks and says, ‘This is the real me.’ ”
Can you recall a time when you felt most intensely alive and
could say with confidence, “This is the real me”?When you can, you
are  aligned  with  your  True  North  and  prepared  to  lead  others
authentically. Professionally, I had that feeling from the first time I
walked into Medtronic in 1989 and joined a group of talented peo-
ple dedicated to the mission to “alleviate pain, restore health, and
extend life.” I felt I could be myself and be appreciated for who I was
and what I could contribute. I sensed immediately that the organi-
zation’s values were aligned with my own.
The Leadership Crisis
An enormous vacuum in leadership exists today—in business, pol-
itics, government, education, religion, and nonprofit organizations.
Yet there is no shortage of people with the capacity for leadership.
xxivINTRODUCTION
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxiv

The problem is that we have a wrongheaded notion of what con-
stitutes a leader, driven by an obsession with leaders at the top. That
misguided standard often results in the wrong people attaining crit-
ical leadership roles.
There  are  leaders  throughout  organizations,  just  waiting  for
opportunities to lead. In too many organizations, however, people
do not feel empowered to lead, nor are they rewarded for doing so.
The purpose of True Northis to enable you to discover your authen-
tic leadership so that you can step up and lead while remaining true
to who you are.
During my time as chairman and CEO of Medtronic in the
1990s, I witnessed firsthand many of the wrong people being cho-
sen to run corporations. Under pressure from Wall Street to maxi-
mize  short-term  earnings,  boards  of  directors  frequently  chose
leaders  for  their  charisma  instead  of  their  character,  their  style
rather  than  their  substance,  and  their  image  instead  of  their
integrity.
When problems surfaced at Enron, WorldCom, Arthur Ander-
sen, Tyco, and dozens of other companies, the severity of the leader-
ship crisis became painfully apparent, creating a widespread erosion
of trust in business leaders. This may surprise you, but I am not so
concerned with people who broke the law, such as Jeff Skilling,
Bernie Ebbers, Richard Scrushy, and Dennis Koslowski. Our legal
system has proven quite effective in dealing with them.
What concerns me are the many powerful business leaders who
bowed to stock market pressure in return for personal gain. They
lost sight of their True North and put their companies at risk by
focusing on the trappings and spoils of leadership instead of build-
ing their organizations for the long term. Many of those who failed
walked away with enormous financial settlements.
The result was a severing of trust with employees, customers,
and shareholders, as public trust in business leaders fell to its lowest
level in fifty years. In business, trust is everything, because success
depends upon customers’ trust in products they buy, employees’
trust in their leaders, investors’ trust in those who invest for them,
and the public’s trust in capitalism.
INTRODUCTIONxxv
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxv

Learning from Authentic Leaders
In large part the leadership vacuum has resulted from a misunder-
standing of what constitutes an effective leader. During the past fifty
years, leadership scholars have conducted more than one thousand
studies in the attempt to determine the definitive leadership styles,
characteristics, or personality traits of great leaders. None of these
studies has produced a clear profile of the ideal leader. Thank good-
ness. If scholars had produced a cookie-cutter leadership style, people
would be forever trying to emulate it. That alone would make them
into personas, and others would see through them immediately.
The reality is that no one can be authentic by trying to be like some-
one else.There is no doubt you can learn from their experiences, but
there is no way you can be successful trying to be likethem. People
trust you when you are genuine and authentic, not an imitation. As
Dr. Reatha Clark King of General Mills said, “If you’re aiming to be
like somebody else, you’re being a copycat because you think that’s
what people want you to do. You’ll never be a star with that kind of
thinking. But you might be a star—unreplicatable—by following
your passion.”
Amgen Chairman and CEO Kevin Sharer, who gained price-
less experience working as Jack Welch’s assistant in the 1980s, saw
the downside of GE’s cult of personality in those days. “Everyone
wanted to be like Jack,” he explained. “Leadership has many voices.
You need to be who you are, not try to emulate somebody else.”
Since turning over the reins of Medtronic to my successor in
2001, I have focused on this leadership crisis by helping develop the
next generation of business leaders through teaching, mentoring,
writing, and speaking. In 2003 I wrote Authentic Leadershipto chal-
lenge the new generation of leaders—from new CEOs to young
leaders just embarking on their careers—to lead authentically.
The feedback I received from readers of Authentic Leadership,
including many CEOs, was that they had a tremendous desire to
be authentic leaders. Many people asked: “How can I become an
authentic leader?” Author Jim Collins raised a similar question in
xxviINTRODUCTION
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxvi

Good to Great,asking, “Can you learn to become a Level 5 leader?”
His conclusion: “I still don’t know the answer.”
With the assistance of coauthor Peter Sims and my colleagues
Diana  Mayer  and  Andrew  McLean,  I  set  out  to  get  definitive
answers to the question. We interviewed 125 authentic leaders to
learn the secrets of their development as leaders. They were open
and honest about how they developed their leadership and candidly
shared their life stories, including their greatest personal struggles,
failures, and triumphs. Many said they had never granted such a
personal interview before. These interviews constitute the largest
in-depth study ever undertaken about how business leaders develop.
The leaders we interviewed ranged in age from twenty-three to
ninety-three, with no fewer than fifteen per decade. They were cho-
sen based on their reputations for being authentic and our personal
knowledge of them. We also solicited recommendations from other
leaders and academics. After the interviews, we assessed each leader
against the dimensions of authentic leadership described in this book.
Our interviewees are a diverse group of women and men from an
array of racial, religious, and socioeconomic backgrounds and nation-
alities. Among them are Dick Kovacevich of Wells Fargo, Andrea
Jung of Avon Products, Chuck Schwab, founder of Charles Schwab
& Co., and Narayana Murthy, founder of Infosys. Half of them are
CEOs, and the other half includes a broad range of nonprofit lead-
ers, midcareer leaders, and young leaders just starting on their
journeys. (For more on our research methodology, see Appendix A.
A complete list of the interviewees is shown in Appendix B.)
After interviewing these leaders, we believe we understand why
academic studies have not produced the profile of an ideal leader.
Leaders are highly complex human beings, people who have distinctive
qualities that cannot be sufficiently described by lists of traits or charac-
teristics.Leaders are defined by their unique life stories and the way
they frame their stories to discover their passions and the purpose
of their leadership.
Reading through three thousand pages of transcripts, our team
was startled to see that these leaders did not identify any universal
INTRODUCTIONxxvii
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxvii

characteristics,  traits,  skills,  or  styles  that  led  to  their  success.
Rather, their leadership emerged from their life stories. By con-
stantly testing themselves through real-world experiences and by
reframing their life stories to understand who they are, these lead-
ers unleashed their passions and discovered the purpose of their
leadership.
Rather than waiting to get to the top to become leaders, they
looked for every opportunity to lead and to develop themselves.
Every one of them faced trials, some of them severe. Many cited
these experiences, along with the people who helped them develop,
as the primary reasons for their success. Without exception, these
leaders believed being authentic made them more effective and suc-
cessful. Their experience in becoming authentic leaders parallels
my personal experience: successful leadership takes conscious develop-
ment and requires being true to your life story.
True Northis written for anyone who wants to be an authen-
tic leader. It is for leaders at all stages of their lives, from those at
the top of organizations to students preparing to become leaders
to lifelong leaders looking for new opportunities. You are never
too young, or too old, to take on leadership challenges and to lead
authentically. It is grounded in the hundreds of years of experi-
ence of the 125 authentic leaders we interviewed as well as my
own forty years in leadership roles. For you, the reader, it is an
opportunity to learn from authentic leaders about how they devel-
oped and to create your own development plan to become an
authentic leader.
The bottom line is this: You can discover your authentic leadership
right now.
•  You do not have to be born with the characteristics or traits
of a leader.
•  You do not have to wait for a tap on the shoulder.
•  You do not have to be at the top of your organization.
•  You can step up and lead at any point in your life.
xxviiiINTRODUCTION
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxviii

As Young & Rubicam CEO Ann Fudge said, “All of us have the
spark of leadership in us, whether it is in business, in government,
or as a nonprofit volunteer. The challenge is to understand our-
selves well enough to discover where we can use our leadership gifts
to serve others. We’re here for something. Life is about giving and
living fully.”
So why hold back? Why not lead now?
In considering whether to step up and lead authentically, ask
yourself these two questions: If not me, then who? If not now, then
when?
Wendy Kopp: Stepping Up at Twenty-One. Many people feel
that in order to lead they must have the power that comes with
authority. For twenty-one-year-old Wendy Kopp, all that was required
was finding her passion. As a senior at Princeton University, Kopp
was  uncertain  about  what  to  do  after  graduation.  Burning  with
desire to change the world, she did not want to pursue the typical
corporate training track her classmates were following. To address
her interest in reforming education to reduce disparities, she orga-
nized a conference of students and business leaders to examine ways
to improve the nation’s K–12 education system.
During the conference an idea came to her: “Why doesn’t this
country have a national teacher corps of recent college graduates
who commit two years to teach in public schools?” Her rhetorical
question inspired her to found Teach For America, the most suc-
cessful secondary educational program in the past twenty-five years.
Kopp grew up in a middle-class family in an affluent area of Dal-
las. Looking back, she said her community was “extraordinarily iso-
lated from reality and the disparities in educational opportunity.”
At Princeton she was deeply involved in leading the Foundation for
Student Communications. Not sure what to do after graduation,
Kopp  went  into  “a  deep  funk”  during  her  senior  year.  As  she
explored teaching in public schools, she realized there were many
like her who believed that depriving kids of an excellent education
was a national tragedy.
INTRODUCTIONxxix
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxix

Seeing the need for more committed teachers in the public
schools  across  America,  Kopp  created  Teach  For  America  to
recruit thousands of graduating students to teach in public school
systems. Passionate about Teach For America’s purpose, she also
recognized  the  challenges  her  teachers  faced  in  closing  the
achievement gap. “Corps members care deeply about their stu-
dents,” she said. “Our biggest challenge is figuring out how they
can stay centered, strong, and healthy, and reenergize themselves
around  our  mission  when  they’re  pressured  by  so  many  other
challenges.”
It wasn’t easy. Lacking management experience and a perma-
nent funding base, Teach For America lurched from one crisis to
the next. The organization was constantly short of cash. Time and
again, Kopp threw herself into fundraising as she restructured bud-
gets and financing to cover deficits. Her passion for the mission kept
her going and inspired others to stay with the organization through
its trials and tribulations.
Fifteen years after the founding of Teach For America, Wendy
Kopp’s  tireless  efforts  and  passionate  leadership  are  paying  off.
Today the program has ten thousand graduates, 60 percent of whom
have remained in teaching. Kopp’s organization continues to attract
exceptional college graduates to join its teacher corps and has estab-
lished a sustainable funding base to support its programs. In 2006
Kopp was named one of “America’s Best Leaders” by US News &
World Report.Kopp’s experience at such a young age captures the
essence of authentic leadership: find something you are passionate
about and then inspire others to join the cause.
The Authentic Leader
A dramatic shift is taking place today in the caliber and character
of new leaders. Led by General Electric’s Jeff Immelt, IBM’s Sam
Palmisano, Xerox’s Anne Mulcahy, and Procter & Gamble’s A.G.
Lafley, these leaders recognize that leadership is notabout their suc-
cess or about getting loyal subordinates to follow them. They know
xxxINTRODUCTION
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxx

the key to a successful organization is having empowered leaders at
all levels, including those that have no direct reports.
Authentic leaders not only inspire those around them, they
empower them to step up and lead. Thus, we offer the new defini-
tion of leadership: The authentic leader brings people together around a
shared purpose and empowers them to step up and lead authentically in
order to create value for all stakeholders.
In Authentic Leadership,I described authentic leaders as genuine
people who are true to themselves and to what they believe in.
They engender trust and develop genuine connections with others.
Because people trust them, they are able to motivate others to high
levels of performance. Rather than letting the expectations of other
people guide them, they are prepared to be their own person and go
their own way. As they develop as authentic leaders, they are more
concerned about serving others than they are about their own suc-
cess or recognition.
This is not to say that authentic leaders are perfect. Far from it.
Every leader has weaknesses, and all are subject to human frailties
and mistakes. Yet by acknowledging their shortcomings and admit-
ting their errors, they connect with people and empower them.
Figure  I.1  summarizes  the  five  dimensions  of  an  authentic
leader:
•  Pursuing purpose with passion
•  Practicing solid values
•  Leading with heart
•  Establishing enduring relationships
•  Demonstrating self-discipline
Pursuing Purpose with Passion
Most people struggle to understand the purpose of their leadership.
In order to find their purpose, authentic leaders must first understand
themselves and their passions. In turn, their passions show the way
INTRODUCTIONxxxi
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxi

to the purpose of their leadership. Without a real sense of purpose,
leaders are at the mercy of their egos and narcissistic vulnerabilities.
Practicing Solid Values
Leaders are defined by their values, and values are personal—they
cannot be determined by anyone else. Integrity, however, is the one
value  required  of  every  authentic  leader.  If  you  do  not  have
integrity,  no  one  will  trust  you,  nor  should  they.  The  values  of
authentic leaders are shaped by their personal beliefs and developed
through study, introspection, consultation with others, and years of
experience. The test of authentic leaders’ values is not what they
say but the values they practice under pressure. If leaders are not
true to the values they profess, people quickly lose confidence in
their leadership.
Leading with Heart
Authentic leaders lead with their hearts as well as their heads. To
some, leading with the heart may sound soft, as though authentic
leaders cannot make tough choices involving pain and loss. Lead-
xxxiiINTRODUCTION
Figure I.1  Dimensions of Authentic Leadership
Purpose
Values
RelationshipsSelf-Discipline
Heart
The
Authentic
Leader
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxii

ing with the heart is anything but soft. It means having passion for
your work, compassion for the people you serve, empathy for the
people you work with, and the courage to make difficult decisions.
Courage is an especially important quality for leaders as they navi-
gate through unpredictable terrain.
Establishing Enduring Relationships
The ability to develop enduring relationships is an essential mark
of authentic leaders. People today demand personal relationships
with their leaders before they will give themselves fully to their jobs.
They insist on access to their leaders, knowing that trust and com-
mitment are built on the openness and depth of relationship with
their leaders. In return, people will demonstrate great commitment
to their work and loyalty to the company.
Demonstrating Self-Discipline
Authentic leaders know competing successfully takes a consistently
high level of self-discipline in order to produce results. They set
high standards for themselves and expect the same from others.
This requires accepting full responsibility for outcomes and holding
others accountable for their performance. When leaders fall short,
it is equally important to admit their mistakes and initiate immedi-
ate corrective action. Self-discipline should be reflected in their per-
sonal lives as well, because without personal self-discipline it is not
possible to sustain self-discipline at work.
Discovering Your Authentic Leadership
Becoming an authentic leader is not easy. First, you have to under-
stand yourself, because the hardest person you will ever have to lead is
yourself.Once you have an understanding of your authentic self,
you will find that leading others is much easier.
Second, to be an effective leader,you must take responsibility for
your own development.Like musicians or athletes born with great
INTRODUCTIONxxxiii
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxiii

abilities, you must devote yourself to a lifetime of development in
order to become a great leader. That sounds logical, but often you
don’t know how. That is the purpose of this book—to show how
you can discover your authentic leadership.
Kroger CEO David Dillon says that most people he has seen
develop as good leaders were self-taught. “The advice I give to indi-
viduals in our company is not to expect the company to hand you
a development plan that will take care of everything. You need to
take responsibility for developing yourself.” To assist in this process,
in Appendix C, you will find a series of exercises corresponding to
each chapter that you can use to build your own leadership devel-
opment plan.
Part One of True Northexamines the journey to authentic lead-
ership. It begins with the leaders’ life stories, which are unique to
them and more powerful than any set of characteristics or leader-
ship skills they possess. Next, the three phases of the leader’s jour-
ney are dissected, looking at the key steps in each phase of the
journey. During their journeys, many leaders lose their way and end
up derailed. To understand how this happens, five types of leaders
who see themselves as heroes of their own journeys are described.
Finally, by exploring the life-changing experiences leaders have
had, we see how they made the transformation from “I” to “We”
and learned the importance of empowering others to lead.
On your journey, you will need the True North of your internal
compass to stay focused and to get back on track when you are at risk
of being derailed. Part Two provides you with that compass and the
development plan to stay true to who you are while you confront the
challenges in the world around you. (See Figure I.2.) It includes five
key areas of your development as a leader: self-awareness at the cen-
ter of your compass, and at the four points, your values and princi-
ples, your motivations, your support team, and the integration of
your life.
Part Three describes how you can follow your passions to dis-
cover the purpose of your leadership. It illustrates how to empower
other people to step up and lead by inspiring them around a shared
xxxivINTRODUCTION
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxiv

purpose. Finally, it addresses how you can achieve superior results
through your organization by optimizing your leadership effective-
ness. In the Epilogue I share my thoughts on how fulfilling leader-
ship can be.
By dedicating yourself to your development, you willdiscover
your authentic leadership.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter One, you may want
to complete the Introduction Exercise found in Appendix C.
INTRODUCTIONxxxv
Figure I.2  A Compass for the Journey
NW
NE
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxv

flast.qxp  1/22/07  11:05 AM  Page xxxvi

Part One
Leadership Is a Journey
There is no such thing as the instant leader. Your journey to authen-
tic leadership will take you through many peaks and valleys as you
encounter the world’s trials, rewards, and seductions. Becoming an
authentic leader takes dedication to your development and growth,
as there will be many temptations to pull you off the course of your
True North. Maintaining your authenticity along the way may be
the greatest challenge you ever face.
In interviewing authentic leaders about their journeys and their
development, what stood out was the passion they felt about their
life stories and the motivation these stories gave them to become
leaders. Begin by asking yourself: What is my life story? In under-
standing and framing your story, you will find the calling to lead
authentically, and you will maintain fidelity to your True North.
p01.qxp  1/17/07  8:15 PM  Page 1

p01.qxp  1/17/07  8:15 PM  Page 2

3
1
THE JOURNEY TO
AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP
Leadership is a journey, not a destination.
It is a marathon, not a sprint.
It is a process, not an outcome.
—John Donahoe, president of eBay
Starbucks founder Howard Schultz is a leader who used his life story
to define his leadership. In the winter of 1961, seven-year-old Schultz
was throwing snowballs with friends outside his family’s apartment
building in the federally subsidized Bayview Housing Projects in
Brooklyn, New York. His mother yelled down from their seventh-
floor  apartment,  “Howard,  come  inside.  Dad  had  an  accident.”
What followed would shape him for the rest of his life.
He found his father in a full-leg cast, sprawled on the living
room couch. While working as a delivery driver, Schultz’s father
had fallen on a sheet of ice and broken his ankle. As a result, he lost
his job—and the family’s health care benefits. Workers’ compensa-
tion did not yet exist, and Schultz’s mother could not go to work
because she was seven months pregnant. The family had nothing to
fall back on. Many evenings, Schultz listened as his parents argued
at the dinner table about how much money they needed to borrow
and from whom. If the telephone rang, his mother asked him to
answer it and tell the bill collectors his parents were not at home.
Schultz  vowed  he  would  do  it  differently  when  he  had  the
opportunity. He dreamed of building a company that treated its
employees well and provided health care benefits. Little did he real-
ize that one day he would be responsible for 140,000 employees
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 3

working in eleven thousand stores worldwide. Schultz was motivated
by his life’s experiences to found Starbucks and build it into the
world’s leading coffeehouse. After being CEO for thirteen years, he
has turned the reins over to his successors but remains as chairman.
Memories of his father’s lack of health care led Schultz to make
Starbucks the first American company to provide access to health
coverage for qualified employees who work as few as twenty hours
per week. “My inspiration comes from seeing my father broken from
the thirty terrible blue-collar jobs he had over his life, where an
uneducated person just did not have a shot,” Schultz said.
That event is directly linked to the culture and the values of Starbucks. I
wanted to build the kind of company my father never had a chance to work
for, where you would be valued and respected, no matter where you came
from, the color of your skin, or your level of education. Offering health care
was a transforming event in the equity of the Starbucks brand that created
unbelievable trust with our people. We wanted to build a company that
linked shareholder value to the cultural values we create with our people.
Unlike some who rise from humble beginnings to create great
personal wealth, Schultz is not ashamed of his roots. He credits his
life story with giving him the motivation to create one of the great
business successes of the last twenty-five years. But understanding
the meaning of his story took deep thought because, like nearly
everyone, he had to confront fears and ghosts from his past.
Brooklyn is burned into Schultz. When he took his daughter to
the housing projects where he grew up, she surveyed the blight and
said with amazement, “I don’t know how you are normal.” Yet his
experience  growing  up  in  Brooklyn  is  precisely  what  enables
Schultz  to  be  so  normal  that  he  can  connect  with  anyone.  He
speaks with a slight Brooklyn accent, relishes an Italian meal at a
familiar restaurant, dresses comfortably in jeans, and respects all
types of people. He never forgets where he came from or lets his
wealth go to his head: “I was surrounded by people who were work-
ing hand-to-mouth trying to pay the bills, who felt like there was
4TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 4

no hope, and they just couldn’t get a break. That’s something that
never leaves you—never.”
His mother told him that he could do anything he wanted in
America. “From my earliest memories, I remember her saying that over
and over again. It was her mantra.” His father had the opposite effect.
As a truck driver, cab driver, and factory worker, he often worked two
or three jobs at a time to make ends meet but never earned more than
$20,000 a year. Schultz watched his father break down while com-
plaining bitterly about not having opportunities or respect from others.
As a teenager, Schultz felt the stigma of his father’s failures, as
the two clashed often. “I was bitter about his underachievement
and lack of responsibility,” he recalled. “I thought he could have
accomplished so much more if he had tried.” Schultz was deter-
mined to escape that fate. “Part of what has always driven me is fear
of failure. I know all too well the face of self-defeat.”
Feeling like an underdog, Schultz developed a deep determina-
tion to succeed. Sports became his early calling, because “I wasn’t
labeled a poor kid on the playing field.” As star quarterback of his
high school football team, he received a scholarship to Northern
Michigan University—and became the first person in his family to
earn a college degree. His fierce competitiveness never faded: it just
shifted from football to business.
Schultz started his career at Xerox but felt the environment was
too bureaucratic and rigid for him to flourish. While others thrived
in the Xerox culture, Schultz yearned to go his own way. “I had to
find a place where I could be myself,” he said.
I could not settle for anything less. You must have the courage to follow an
unconventional path. You can’t value or measure your life experience in
the moment, because you never know when you’re going to find the true
path that enables you to find your voice. The reservoir of all my life expe-
riences shaped me as a person and a leader.
Schultz then got involved in selling coffee filters, where he
encountered  Starbucks  Coffee  during  a  sales  call  at  Pike  Place
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP5
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 5

Market in Seattle. “I felt I had discovered a whole new continent,”
he said. He actively campaigned to join the company, becoming its
director of operations and marketing.
On a buying trip to Italy, Schultz noticed the unique commu-
nity experience that Milanese espresso bars played in their cus-
tomers’  daily  lives.  He  dreamed  of  creating  a  similar  sense  of
community in the United States, using coffee as the vehicle. Upon
his return, Schultz decided to launch the new business on his own
and opened three coffeehouses in Seattle. Learning he could acquire
Starbucks from its founders, Schultz quickly rounded up financing
from private investors.
As he was finalizing the purchase, Schultz faced the greatest
challenge of his business career when one of his investors pro-
posed to buy the company himself. “I feared all my influential
backers would defect to this investor,” he recalled. “I asked Bill
Gates Sr., father of the founder of Microsoft, to help me stand up
to one of the titans of Seattle because I needed his stature and
confidence.”
Schultz had a searing meeting with the investor, who told him,
“If you don’t go along with my deal, you’ll never work in this town
again. You’ll never raise another dollar. You’ll be dog meat.” On
leaving the meeting, Schultz was overcome with tears. For two fren-
zied weeks, he prepared an alternative plan that met his $3.8 mil-
lion financing goal and staved off the alternate investor.
If I had agreed to the terms the investor demanded, he would have taken
away my dream. He could have fired me at whim and dictated the atmos-
phere and values of Starbucks. The passion, commitment, and dedication
would have all disappeared.
The  saddest  day  of  Schultz’s  life  was  when  his  father  died.
When he shared with a friend the conflicts he felt in his relation-
ship with his father, his friend remarked, “If he had been successful,
you wouldn’t have the drive you have now.”
6TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 6

After his father’s death, Schultz reframed his image of his father,
recognizing strengths such as honesty, work ethic, and commitment
to family. Instead of seeing his father as a failure, he came to believe
the system had crushed him. “After he died, I realized I had judged
him unfairly. He never had the opportunity to find fulfillment and
dignity from meaningful work.”
Schultz channeled his drive into building a company where his
father would have been proud to work. By paying more than mini-
mum wage, offering substantial benefits, and granting stock options to
all its workers, Starbucks offers its employees what Schultz’s father
never received. Schultz uses these incentives to attract and retain peo-
ple whose values are consistent with the company’s values. As a result,
Starbucks employee turnover is less than half that of other retailers.
Among Schultz’s greatest talents is his ability to connect with
people from diverse backgrounds. He tells his story and the Star-
bucks story at special events and visits two dozen Starbucks stores
per week. Each day he gets up at 5:30 A.M. to speak by phone with
Starbucks personnel around the world. He says Starbucks gave him
“the canvas to paint on.”
Starbucks is the quintessential people-based business, where everything
we do is about humanity. The culture and values of the company are its
signature and its competitive difference. We have created a worldwide
appeal for our customers because people are hungry for human connec-
tion and authenticity. Whether you’re Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, or
Greek, coffee is just the catalyst for that connection. I don’t know if I was
drawn to this business because of my background, or whether it gave me
the opportunity to connect the dots, but it has come full circle for me.
Schultz’s experience is instructive in the way he consciously
used  his  life  experiences  to  envision  the  kind  of  company  he
wanted to create in Starbucks and then made it happen. His exam-
ple is one of dozens from authentic leaders who traced their success
and inspiration directly to their life stories.
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP7
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 7

Your Life Story Defines Your Leadership
Asked what motivates them to lead, authentic leaders consistently
say they find their motivation through understanding their own sto-
ries. Their stories enable them to know who they are and to stay
focused on their True North.
The stories of authentic leaders cover the full spectrum of life’s
experiences. They include the impact of parents, teachers, coaches,
and mentors who recognized their potential; the impact of their com-
munities; and their leadership in team sports, scouting, student gov-
ernment, and early employment. Many leaders find their motivation
comes from a difficult experience in their lives: personal illness or the
illness of a family member; death of a parent or a sibling; or feelings
of being excluded, discriminated against, or rejected by peers.
What emerges from these stories is that virtually all the leaders
interviewed found their passion to lead through the uniqueness of
their life stories. 
Not by being born as leaders.
Not by believing they had the characteristics, traits, or style of
a leader.
Not by trying to emulate great leaders.
Some outstanding leaders like former Merck CEO Roy Vagelos
said  they  did  not  see  themselves  as  leaders  at  all.  Instead,  they
viewed themselves as people who wanted to make a difference and
inspired others to join with them in pursuing common goals. If that
isn’t leadership, what is?
Let’s focus on the life stories of three more leaders. As you read
these stories, think about the ways your life story inspires you and
defines your leadership.
Dick Kovacevich: From Athletic Field to Premier Banker.
During  the  past  twenty  years,  Dick  Kovacevich,  chairman  and
CEO of Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco, has compiled one of
the most successful track records of any commercial banker. In his
interview, he did not focus on his professional success but talked
8TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 8

instead about how his experiences growing up in a small town in
western Washington shaped his leadership philosophy.
Kovacevich was raised in a working-class family and interacted
with people of all income and education levels. The dairy farmers,
loggers,  and  workers  at  the  local  Weyerhaeuser  sawmill  that  he
knew were intelligent people who worked hard and had high ethi-
cal standards but lacked a college education. His teachers had a
tremendous influence on him, encouraging him to do well academ-
ically and go to college.
From  the  age  of  eleven  through  high  school,  Kovacevich
worked in a local grocery store, which stimulated his interest in
business. He would go to school, play sports from 3 to 5:30P.M.,
run home and eat, and then be at work from 6 to 9P.M. Eventu-
ally, he ran the produce department in the summer when the
produce manager went on vacation. He did the displays, pricing,
and ordering and learned he enjoyed business. Those experiences
taught Kovacevich disciplines that stayed with him ever since: “I
developed the intuition and leadership skills needed in business,
more so than in business school where there weren’t any leader-
ship courses.”
Athletics had a significant impact on Kovacevich’s develop-
ment as a leader. From the age of four, he played a team sport sev-
eral hours every day, becoming the team’s leader as captain in
baseball or quarterback in football. “On the athletic field I learned
that a group of people can perform so much better as a team than
as the sum of their individual talents. Through my early leader-
ship experiences, I learned skills by trial and error that I could
apply in business.”
If you were quarterback of a team of quarterbacks, you would lose every
game. Just as quarterbacks are overrated, CEOs are too. You can’t be an
all-star quarterback unless you have some great linemen, outstanding
receivers, and a good running game. Diversity of skills is an important
element of any effective team. I am amazed at leaders who surround
themselves with people just like themselves. There is no way they can be
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP9
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 9

effective. We need to recognize our weaknesses, but don’t want to amplify
them. You need to surround yourself with people whose strengths comple-
ment your weaknesses.
Dick Kovacevich has made good use of that principle through-
out his business career, from Citibank to Norwest Bank to Wells
Fargo. He has surrounded himself with talented executives who
build the bank’s individual businesses, giving them the authority
and latitude to lead in their own way while continuing to act as
quarterback of the team.
His  life  experience  of  growing  up  in  a  small  town  has  pro-
foundly shaped his banking philosophy. While other banks were
using computers to eliminate customer-service personnel, Kovace-
vich endeavored to make Wells Fargo the most client-friendly bank
in  every  community  where  it  operates  by  having  its  employees
adopt  an  attitude  of  helping  their  clients  meet  their  financial
needs. For example, when you approach Wells Fargo for a mortgage
on your home, the loan officer is likely to ask you about setting
up a savings account for your daughter’s college fund or an indi-
vidual retirement account. Because Kovacevich has surrounded
himself with highly talented executives and has remained so deeply
engaged in the business, Wells Fargo has been able to sustain the
highest growth in earnings over the past two decades of any com-
mercial bank.
Ellen Breyer: Recapturing Her Passion. Ellen Breyer, CEO of
Hazelden Foundation, the leading chemical dependency treatment
organization, relies on passion to guide her leadership. As a college
student in New York in the late 1960s, she was an activist involved
in many causes. She protested the Vietnam War, organized civil
rights marches in Washington, and led voter registration drives in
her hometown of New Rochelle, New York.
Breyer did not know the federal government was taking notice
of her activities, or that it considered them subversive. Then one
day she was notified that her federal student loans had been with-
10TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 10

drawn. “The government was taking pictures at rallies, looking at
petitions, and identifying college students. I was one of four people
in  my  class  who  had  their  student  loans  pulled  as  a  result,”  she
explained.
There were some borderline activities, but I wasn’t part of them. The anti-
war movement was a long continuum, and we played within the law. We
had strong feelings, passions, beliefs, and a solid rationale for what we
were doing. It was remarkable that you could put your energies into some-
thing and make significant change. I loved it.
Breyer married after graduation and went into business, rising
to head of corporate marketing for Godiva Chocolate. After her
three sons were born, she cut back on her work schedule to spend
time raising them. As a result of her husband’s promotions at Amer-
ican Express, the Breyers moved to London, back to New York, and
then to Minneapolis. Each time Ellen took a new position in the
corporate  world.  When  her  youngest  son  graduated  from  high
school, she decided to take a sabbatical. “It is interesting how my
life came full circle,” she reflected.
I was spending a lot of time on nonprofit volunteer activities and enjoying
that  more  than  my  day  job.  I  went  skiing  in  Aspen  for  a  season  and
thought about what I wanted to do with the rest of my life. I asked myself,
how can I make the transition from the for-profit environment to working
in a nonprofit?
While serving on the board of Hazelden Foundation, Breyer
was made interim CEO as the board conducted a national search.
Seven months later she became permanent CEO, enabling her to
fulfill her desire to help people with dependency issues.
This experience has reconnected me with my passions. I feel strongly about
helping people recover from alcohol and drug addiction. On a personal
level, my father died of alcoholism. There is a direct link to what I did
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP11
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 11

before I was thirty and what I am doing now, in terms of connecting your
work life with your passions, and the belief that you can change things in
a dramatic way.
Breyer’s ability to recapture the passions of her early years and
link them to her current work is impressive. She has reframed her
life story by taking experiences from her past to define and empower
her present. As a result, her passion for leading has a remarkable
impact on those around her.
Reatha Clark King: From Cotton Fields to the Boardroom.
Reatha Clark King’s roots trace to a rural community, where she
was encouraged by many to become a leader. King acknowledges, “I
didn’t get here on my own. I am standing on the shoulders of the
giants in my life who reached out and helped me get launched, and
all those who helped me along the way.”
King grew up in Georgia in the 1940s as the daughter of farm
laborers.  Her  father  left  the  family  when  she  was  young,  so  her
mother worked as a maid to support her three children. Her family
was so poor that she often had to leave school to work in the cot-
ton fields for $3 per day so her mother could pay the bills. “Those
were bitter moments in my experience, because white children
didn’t have to leave school,” she recalled. “That contrast was so
clear and so wrong.”
The young King found her church a haven amid the constant
poverty  and  discrimination.  “I  have  fond  memories  of  going  to
church every Sunday morning at eleven and being there until two
o’clock. I can still close my eyes and see my grandmother praying.”
The older women of the church, known as “sisters,” identified her
special abilities, noticing her intellectual potential, initiative, work
ethic, and dependability. “The sisters, my teachers, and people in
the community kept an eye on me, and encouraged me to over-
come unjust barriers against black people.”
King credited two mentors with influencing her development
the most: her grade school teacher for seven years and the school
12TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 12

librarian. They encouraged her to go to Clark University in Atlanta,
where she won a tuition scholarship and worked in the library for
35 cents an hour to pay for room and board.
While studying at Clark, King was mentored by the chair of the
chemistry department, who stimulated her interest in becoming a
research chemist. She applied to the University of Chicago’s doc-
toral program, a bold step for a young woman from Georgia. After
earning her Ph.D. in physical chemistry, she worked at the National
Bureau of Standards and then taught at York College in New York.
Even there, things were not easy. “One black faculty member called
me an Uncle Tom for trying to resolve issues,” she recalled. “That
was one of the most hurtful moments of my life.”
She got her first opportunity to lead when she became president
of Metropolitan State University in Minneapolis. But she did not
yet see herself as a leader.
Others thought of me as a leader, but I saw myself as someone doing what
needed to be done. My reasons for leading were not centered on my needs
but on the needs of my people, of women, and of my community. I saw
compelling challenges to be met. If no one else is willing to lead, or capa-
ble of leading, then it is my obligation to step up to the challenge.
King found her gender represented another barrier to opportu-
nity. “You had to reach down deep to reinforce your courage in
order  to  overcome  both  race  and  gender.  To  find  inspiration,  I
would think back on the sisters and teachers along the way who had
such great influence on my life.”
While at Metro State, she was recruited by the CEO of General
Mills to be president of the General Mills Foundation. Using this
platform, she pioneered programs to help young people of color.
Since King retired from General Mills, she has devoted her energies
to corporate boards. Her reputation grew as she was elected to the
boards of directors of ExxonMobil and Wells Fargo Bank, as well as
Minnesota Mutual, Department 56, and H. B. Fuller. In 2004 the
National Association of Corporate Directors named her Director of
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP13
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 13

the Year. “I enjoy opportunities to serve on corporate boards because
diversity should be at that table. Not everybody likes being the only
one there, but I feel comfortable,” she said.
King often thinks back to what her parents did with what they
had and wonders if she is doing enough. “The question is, what do
people lead toward? I’m leading toward a cause: to get more oppor-
tunities for people. It is in my blood to remove unjust barriers and
to help people appreciate themselves and be who they are.”
Throughout her life, King has used the inspiration of her life
story to stay on course to her True North. She reaches out and helps
others as she quietly walks past barriers of racial and gender dis-
crimination, without ever expressing discomfort or anger. She is as
comfortable in the boardrooms of the world’s largest corporations
as she is in creating opportunities for the poor.
What’s Your Life Story?
What  can  be  learned  from  the  stories  of  Howard  Schultz,  Dick
Kovacevich, Ellen Breyer, and Reatha Clark King? All of them, like
other leaders interviewed, take their passion and inspiration to lead
from their life stories. By understanding the formative experiences
of their early lives, they have been able to reframe their life stories
and their leadership around fulfilling their passions and following
their True North.
At this point you may be wondering, doesn’t everyone have a
life story? What makes leaders’ stories different from everyone else’s?
Many people with painful stories see themselves as victims, feel-
ing the world has dealt them a bad hand. Or they lack the intro-
spection to see the connection between their life experiences and
the goals they are pursuing now. Some get so caught up in chasing the
world’s esteem that they never become genuine leaders.
The difference with authentic leaders lies in the way they frame
their stories. Their life stories provide the context for their lives,
and through them they find their passion and inspiration to make an
impact in the world. Novelist John Barth once said, “The story of
14TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 14

your life is not your life. It is your story.” In other words, it is your
story that matters, not the facts of your life. Our life stories are like
permanent tapes playing in our heads. Over and over, we replay the
events and interactions with people that are important to our lives,
attempting to make sense of them and using them to find our place
in the world.
Reframing our stories enables us to recognize that we are not
victims at all but people shaped by experiences that provide the
impetus for us to become leaders. Our life stories evolve constantly
as we shape the meaning of our past, present, and future. Warren
Bennis says, “You are the author of your life.” He advocates using
our stories to provide the inspiration to create our futures.
As the author of your story, can you connect the dots between
your past and your future to find your inspiration to lead authenti-
cally? What people or experiences have shaped you? What have
been the key turning points in your life? Where do you find your
passion to lead in your life story?
The Journey to Authentic Leadership
Having considered how our life stories provide the basis for our
leadership, we are ready to embark on the journey to authentic
leadership.
When I graduated from college, I had the naive notion that the
journey to leadership was a straight line to the top of an organization.
I learned the hard way that leadership is not a simple destination of
becoming CEO. Rather, it is a marathon journey that progresses
through many stages until you reach your peak leadership. I was not
alone. Of all the leaders over forty we interviewed, none wound up
where they thought they would.
Vanguard CEO Jack Brennan believes that the worst thing
people can do is to manage their careers with a career map: “The
dissatisfied people I have known and those who experienced ethi-
cal or legal failures all had a clear career plan.” Brennan recom-
mends being flexible and venturesome in stepping up to unexpected
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP15
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 15

opportunities. “If all you’re interested in is advancing your career,
you’ll be dissatisfied at the end of the day.”
Fifty years ago, business leaders chose their careers in their early
twenties when they joined a company after college or military ser-
vice, worked there diligently for forty years, retired to a warm cli-
mate, and often died before seventy. In interviewing leaders at all
phases of their leadership journeys, it became clear that an entirely
new leadership development path is emerging, as illustrated by Fig-
ure 1.1.
As the lifeline indicates, your development as a leader is not a
straight line to the top (dashed line) but a journey filled with many
ups and downs as you progress to peak leadership and continue lead-
ing through the final stage (solid line). These days your journey is
more likely to follow a winding path than it is to be a race to the top.
As eBay’s John Donahoe said, “Everything in life is a cycle.”
When things are up, the only thing you know is that they are going to go
down. On the down slope the only thing you know is that things will turn
up. You don’t recognize the upward slope as the lows are higher than your
highs used to be. That’s life as a process, an opportunity to learn and grow.
Make a movie of your life, not just snapshots along the way.
16TRUE NORTH
Figure 1.1  The Journey to Authentic Leadership
Character
Formation
Rubbing Up
Against the World
Stepping Up
to Lead
Crucibles
Peak
Leadership
Generativity:
Wisdom and Giving
Back
30
6090
Preparing for LeadershipLeadingGiving Back
Age
Leadership
Development
Phase IIIPhase IIPhase I
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 16

Because many people are living well into their nineties these
days, the leader’s journey follows the new span of life and subdivides
into three periods, each of roughly thirty years. Each stage of the
journey opens up a myriad of opportunities for leadership. In their
first thirty years, leaders develop through education and studying,
as well as extracurricular and early work experiences. Phase I is
labeled “Preparing for Leadership.” Phase II, from thirty to sixty
years of age, is the “Leading” phase in which leaders take on suc-
cessive roles until they complete their peak leadership experience.
Finally, Phase III is for “Giving Back,” a stage of human devel-
opment  that  psychologist  Erik  Erikson  called  “generativity.”  It
begins around age sixty, when leaders have completed their princi-
pal career leadership roles, and continues for the rest of their lives.
In this phase, authentic leaders look for opportunities to spread
their knowledge and wisdom across many people and organizations,
even as they continue their own active learning process.
Phase I: Preparing for Leadership
The first thirty years is the time to prepare for leadership, when
character is formed and people become individual contributors or
lead teams for the first time. As Randy Komisar, former CEO of
LucasArts, says, “This is your opportunity to rub up against the
world.”
Very few leaders these days are making career commitments in
their twenties. Instead, they use the time following college to gain
valuable work experience. Typically changing jobs every eighteen
to twenty-four months to diversify their experience, many young
leaders have an eye on gaining admission to graduate school in busi-
ness, law, or government. Even some who complete their master’s
degrees prefer individual contributor roles in consulting or finance
before committing to a specific company or industry.
Stanford Business School professor Joel Peterson, former man-
aging partner of real estate developer Trammell Crow, offers a chal-
lenging view of this phase:
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP17
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 17

You’re in a self-absorbed decade, asking yourself, “What are my strengths
and weaknesses, how can I get ahead, how can I impact the world?” It’s
all about you. But once you get out there and start to do things that mat-
ter and develop relationships with people, you find that you’re no longer
just managing your résumé.
This self-absorption is a natural phase of development, as the mea-
sures of success in your teens and twenties are based primarily on what
you  accomplish  as  an  individual.  Your  performance  determines
what schools you are admitted to and how well you do in your ini-
tial jobs. Here’s how Randy Komisar described what comes next:
We begin life on a linear path where success is based on having a clear tar-
get. Life gets complicated when the targets aren’t clear anymore, and you
have to set your own targets. By rubbing up against the world, you get to
know yourself. Either do that, or you’re going to spend your life serving
the interests and expectations of others.
He acknowledges that the start of the journey is particularly
hard for young people. He tells his students that life is not in their
control. “They look at me and say, ‘Hey, man. All I want to do is get
a good job, buy a car, have a house, get married, and have kids. Just
get out of my way.’ ” Komisar says he wishes life were so simple. He
tells them:
Let me just plant this seed. Keep it alive and come back to it in ten years,
but don’t flush it. I’m not asking you to follow my path. I’m only chal-
lenging you to ask yourself the question from time to time, “What do you
want out of your life?” At some point it’s going to be relevant, and I want
to empower you for that time.
Jonathan Doochin: Pay It Forward. At twenty-three, Jonathan
Doochin was the youngest leader we interviewed. In his senior year
of college he created Harvard’s Leadership Institute as an umbrella
18TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 18

organization for the more than two hundred student organizations
on the campus. As the founder, he organized programs to facilitate
the development of young leaders.
Doochin traces his passion to help others to an experience he
had  in  third  grade,  when  he  could  not  spell  “surprise”  during  a
spelling bee. “The kids made fun of me. I felt like a total failure.”
After he was diagnosed with dyslexia, his parents worked with him
on homework three to five hours every night, while his fifth-grade
teacher  mentored  him  daily.  “Miss  Jackson’s  interest  made  me
believe I could do anything,” he explained. “Without her faith and
my parents’ dedication, I would have never gone to Harvard.”
As a result of this experience, Doochin developed a personal
philosophy of “pay it forward” that guides his leadership today. He
believes those he affects directly will pay it forward to a handful of
others, and over time the cycle will compound to help countless
people. “I can never directly repay all those along the way who
helped  me,  but  I  can  have  a  positive  impact  on  those  coming
behind,” he said. “You don’t have to be CEO to make an impact.
You can do it every day, starting with your next-door neighbor.
Leadership happens at every stage of your life.”
Ian  Chan:  Creating  a  Scientific  Revolution.  Ian  Chan  is
another young leader who discovered his passion to lead at an early
age. As his college graduation approached, he knew he wanted “an
opportunity that would get me excited to jump out of bed every day
and go to work.” After uninspiring experiences in investment bank-
ing and private equity, he and his younger brother got excited about
the human genome revolution.
Starting a cutting-edge company that could revolutionize med-
icine, the Chan brothers founded U.S. Genomics to deliver per-
sonalized  genomics  on  a  broad  scale.  As  their  advisers,  they
attracted noted scientists like Craig Venter, who originally mapped
the  human  genome,  and  Bob  Langer,  a  renowned  technologist.
Starting with a $100,000 credit card loan, they subsequently raised
$52 million from venture capitalists, several of whom joined their
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP19
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 19

board of directors as the Chan brothers gave up more than half their
ownership.
Over the next five years the company’s work attracted attention
in the scientific community and venture capital world and became
the pioneer in its field. When the founders presented the company’s
exceptional performance in December 2001, the board gave them
a  standing  ovation.  Four  months  later,  the  Chan  brothers  were
shocked when the board told them that they were being replaced
by a new CEO. “Even to this day, I have no idea why this happened
when things were going so well,” he said.
You put your heart and soul into it for many years and then boom, it’s all
gone. It was gut-wrenching to have something you created, believed in
deeply, and made incredible sacrifices for, taken away from you. You still
have some shares, but you’re not part of the enterprise anymore with its
mission you believe in. At first, I was in denial and wanted to continue
fighting the battle, but I felt helpless.
In hindsight, it was a very rich experience for five years that I can
build on for the next journey. I had been working crazy hours and was
very  tired.  I  didn’t  have  a  personal  life  and  needed  a  more  balanced
approach. To regroup, I spent two years getting my MBA. That provided
time  for  self-reflection  and  opportunities  to  interact  with  some  of  the
world’s top business leaders. I realized I was still fortunate to have my
health, family, and the privilege of living in a free country. These should
never be taken for granted.
I recognized my heart is still in entrepreneurship and biotechnology.
There are so many untreatable diseases today that provide the opportunity
to make a broad impact. That’s why I’m now starting another company
that can improve health care through technology and innovation.
Ian Chan appears to be a victim of his own success. As the
potential of U.S. Genomics became apparent to the venture capi-
talists that funded the venture, they decided they needed a more
experienced executive to lead it. Yet for all the heartache and pain,
20TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 20

Chan had an invaluable experience that will be formative to him
on his leadership journey. Unfortunately, fear of failure keeps many
young leaders from jumping into opportunities like he did. Young
& Rubicam CEO Ann Fudge offered a different point of view, not-
ing, “Struggle and tough experiences ultimately fashion you.”
Don’t worry about the challenges. Embrace them. Go through them even
if they hurt. Tell yourself, there is something to be learned from this
experience. I may not fully understand it now, but I will later.It’s all
part of life, and life is a process of learning. Every challenging experience
develops your core of inner strength, which gets you through those storms.
Nothing worth doing in life is going to be easy.
Phase II: Leading
The second phase of your leadership journey begins with a rapid
accumulation of leadership experiences and it culminates in the
fifties,  when  leaders  typically  reach  their  peak  leadership.  In
between, most leaders go through a crucible, a difficult period at
work or at home that tests them to the core. The result is a trans-
formation  of  their  understanding  of  what  their  leadership  is  all
about, followed by a rapid acceleration of their development.
Many leaders express a strong drive to gain experience in lead-
ing early in their careers. In contrast to many business school class-
mates  who  started  as  consultants  or  investment  bankers,  Wells
Fargo’s Kovacevich just wanted to run something when he got out
of school: “My goal was to find a company that would give me the
opportunity to run a business as quickly as possible.”
Dan Schulman, Virgin Mobile USA’s CEO, compared accumu-
lating experiences to the weight lifting he did when he played high
school football. “Leading a company is like doing multiple repeti-
tions of three-hundred-pound weights. No one can lift three hun-
dred pounds unless they start much lower and work their way up,”
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP21
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 21

he says. “If they don’t have their muscles in shape through a variety
of experiences, they will be crushed by it.”
In Schulman’s view, every experience prior to becoming CEO
helped him build muscle. “I never viewed them as a steppingstone
to the next rung on the ladder,” he said.
You need those early experiences to learn the lessons that will help prepare
you for challenges later in your career. Those who move up the ladder too
quickly find themselves in a precarious place. They think they are heroes,
but when real challenges and the realities of failure hit them, they’re unpre-
pared to deal with them.
Martha Goldberg Aronson: Taking on Added Responsibility.
After several successful experiences, emerging leaders are often iden-
tified as having the talent to lead across a much wider business spec-
trum, and their companies test them in more challenging settings.
In  her  early  years  at  Medtronic,  Martha  Goldberg  Aronson
developed a reputation as a high-potential leader. She joined the
company’s acquisitions group and was selected two years later as a
Medtronic Fellow to attend business school. Rejoining Medtronic as
a product manager, she was soon promoted to run a start-up venture.
When management consolidated Aronson’s venture with an
existing business, she became general manager of the business. As
her business flourished, Aronson’s career prospects brightened. One
day she was home alone with her two children when the phone
rang. Medtronic’s head of human resources asked her, “What would
you think about an international assignment?” Aronson recalled, “I
hemmed and hawed and told her this wasn’t the best day to talk
about a move.”
Aronson was skeptical about whether an international move
was right for her career or her personal life. Being far from the sup-
port of her parents and older siblings with a baby and a toddler was
not part of her game plan. She also balked at walking away from her
current job before it was done and worried about the impact on
22TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 22

her husband’s career. After discussing the European opportunity
with her mentors and her husband, she decided to take the job
because she realized it was a special opportunity to work overseas and
broaden her understanding of how business is done there.
Aronson flourished in the European environment. She gained
significantly from the daily exposure to the wide range of cultures in
her region, and she led her multi-country team to produce significant
results. She took the risk when an opportunity came, willing to learn
more about leading in a complex geographic environment without
knowing  the  next  step  in  her  career.  After  three  years,  she  was
recalled to Medtronic headquarters to head investor relations, just
as she was having her third child.
Jeff Immelt: Hitting the Wall. Many leaders go through a cru-
cible when they have an experience at work that dramatically tests
their sense of self, their values, or their assumptions about their
future or career. I call this “hitting the wall,” because the experience
resembles a fast-moving race car hitting the wall of the track, some-
thing most rising leaders experience at least once in their careers.
General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt was a fast-rising star in his
mid-thirties when he faced his toughest challenge. Asked to return
to GE’s plastics business as head of world sales and marketing, he
had reservations about accepting the move because it was not a pro-
motion. Jack Welch told him, “I know this isn’t what you want to
do, but this is a time when you serve the company.”
Facing stiff competition, the division had entered into several
long-term, fixed-price contracts with key customers, including U.S.
automakers, when a spike of inflation sent the division’s costs soar-
ing. Immelt’s operation missed its operating profit target by $30 mil-
lion, or 30 percent of its budget. He tried to increase prices, but
progress was slow, as Immelt’s actions caused its crucial relationship
with General Motors to deteriorate.
This only intensified the pressure on Immelt to produce results
and  forced  Welch  to  resolve  the  issues  by  talking  to  GM  CEO
Roger  Smith.  Welch  did  not  hesitate  to  reach  down  to  pepper
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP23
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 23

Immelt  with  questions  by  phone.  Immelt  recalled  the  year  as  a
remarkably difficult one until he and his team could start to turn
the business around.
Nobody wants to be around somebody going through a low period. In
times like that you’ve got to be able to draw from within. Leadership is one
of these great journeys into your own soul.
Jeff Immelt was under enormous pressure to deliver immediate
results, but he withstood the pressure to compromise and took the
long-term course of getting the business back on track. Immelt’s suc-
cess in leading this turnaround prepared him to become Welch’s
successor, where he has faced much greater pressure but has stayed
the course of his True North to build GE for the next decade.
These journeys illustrate that reaching your peak leadership
these days is anything but a straight line to the top. In truth, it is the
difficult  experiences  that  prepare  you  to  lead  your  organization
through the challenges you will face.
Phase III: Giving Back
Two thousand years ago Roman statesman Marcus Cicero declared
that “old age is to be resisted.” Today the last thirty years of a leader’s
journey can be the most productive and rewarding of all. Many lead-
ers are bypassing retirement to share their experience with multiple
organizations. They serve on for-profit or nonprofit boards, mentor
young leaders, take up teaching, or coach newly appointed CEOs.
Lord John Browne, who has led British Petroleum to new heights
in  his  eleven  years  at  the  helm,  agrees  with  this  assessment.  In
announcing he would step down as CEO at the age of sixty, Browne
said, “I don’t believe in retirement. The idea seems a touch out of
date.” He suggested he would be looking for an interesting new
position with a purpose. “I’m hooked on business,” he concluded.
Ninety-three-year-old Zyg Nagorski was the senior leader inter-
viewed for our study. After running the Aspen Institute’s Executive
24TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 24

Programs for a decade, Nagorski stepped aside at seventy-five. Then
he and his wife started the Center for International Leadership to
conduct values and ethics seminars for executives. Nagorski’s prob-
ing style caused many leaders to rethink their values and how they
would respond in complex situations. Eighteen years later, he is still
going strong.
Exploring Leadership After CEO: My Story
Along with Warren Bennis, Nagorski is one of my role models for
Phase III. Early in life I adopted the philosophy that “you only go
around once in life,” so I wanted to have as many meaningful expe-
riences as I could. I observed many CEOs who stayed too long,
never groomed a successor, and retired without anything to do. My
goal was to lead a major organization doing important work, turn it
over to my successor, and then move on.
Elected CEO of Medtronic in 1991, I told the board that I
should not serve more than ten years, because that was sufficient
time to accomplish the organization’s goals and develop a well-
qualified  successor.  I  was  fortunate  to  have  Art  Collins  to  lead
Medtronic when I stepped aside in 2001 at age fifty-eight. Not hav-
ing a clear vision of what I wanted to do next, I spent the first six
months exploring wide-ranging opportunities in government, edu-
cation, health care policy, and international relations. Each field
was interesting, but none seemed just right.
Meanwhile, I stayed active in the business community by serv-
ing on the boards of Goldman Sachs, Novartis, and Target and now
ExxonMobil. Viewing these corporations from the board’s vantage
point has been a superb education into leaders in the vital indus-
tries of financial services, health care, retail, and energy and the
challenges they face.
In 2002 Penny and I moved to Switzerland for a “working sab-
batical,” as I had a joint appointment to teach leadership at two
leading Swiss universities. We found living in Switzerland was very
stimulating, although it was hard for Penny to be so far from her
THE JOURNEY TO AUTHENTIC LEADERSHIP25
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 25

work. I vividly recall my first day in the classroom, when I met
ninety MBA students from thirty-five countries. It was a scary feel-
ing to stand in front of these very bright and demanding students.
Talking about Medtronic was easy, but leading a case discussion on
Intel that engaged all ninety students was an enormous challenge.
But I found I loved teaching and also enjoyed counseling students
and hearing their dreams, hopes, and fears.
While in Switzerland, I began writing Authentic Leadership,an
experience that was difficult but rewarding. Returning from Switzer-
land, I became a full-time professor of management practice at Har-
vard Business School, following a four-month stint at Yale School
of Management. At Harvard I teach “Leadership and Corporate
Accountability,” the new required MBA course, and an elective I
created, “Authentic Leadership Development,” whose content is a
forerunner of this book.
At this stage of my journey I feel fortunate to have these oppor-
tunities  for  continued  growth  and  interaction  with  outstanding
leaders at all stages of their journeys. And I have discovered a new
purpose for my leadership: to help develop the next generation of
authentic leaders.
Regardless of where you are in your journey—at the top of your
organization, just getting started, or looking for a new challenge—
every leadership experience you have will enable you to grow and to dis-
cover your authentic leadership.Just as you conclude one portion of
your journey, another opportunity will emerge to take your learning
from previous experiences and apply it to a new situation. If you
embrace your story, your leadership journey never ends. Yet along
the way many leaders stumble and get derailed. This is a risk that all
leaders face. Before exploring how you become an authentic leader,
let’s explore why some leaders lose their way.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Two, you may want
to complete the Chapter One Exercise found in Appendix C.
26TRUE NORTH
c01.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 26

27
2
WHY LEADERS 
LOSE THEIR WAY
During the course of their leadership journeys many leaders lose
sight of their True North and get derailed. This is a risk all leaders
face. Before describing how to become an authentic leader, let’s
explore what causes some leaders to lose their way. Why do people
with excellent potential get derailed just as they appear to be hit-
ting the peak of their leadership? Can they recover from failures and
still become authentic leaders?
These questions trouble everyone who wants to lead, because
people who lose their way are not necessarily bad leaders. They have
the potential to become good leaders, even great leaders, but some-
where along the way they get pulled off course. Little by little, bit by
bit, they get caught up in their own success. Just as they are receiv-
ing more acclaim from the external world and the rewards that go
with it, they are at greatest risk of deviating from their True North.
A recent example of a high-profile leader who lost sight of his
True North is Philip Purcell, the former CEO of Morgan Stanley.
Purcell accomplished a great deal in his career and did nothing ille-
gal or unethical, but he lost his way.
Throughout his career Purcell was a star, from finishing at the
head of his class at Chicago Graduate School of Business to his
successes at McKinsey, Sears, and Dean Witter. When he led the
merger of Dean Witter with Morgan Stanley and wound up as its
CEO, he appeared to be on top of the world.
His primary challenge at Morgan Stanley was to create a finan-
cial services powerhouse by integrating the investment bank with
the brokerage business. Instead of spending time with the money
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 27

managers and traders, who were the big earners in his firm, and
with his new customers in this most client-centric of all busi-
nesses, he focused on building his power base by maneuvering the
merged board.
Purcell  also  pushed  out  many  capable  executives  who  chal-
lenged  his  leadership.  The  criterion  for  promotion  shifted  from
Morgan Stanley’s performance-based meritocracy to loyalty to Pur-
cell. He reportedly reneged on his promise to turn over the CEO
position after three years to Morgan Stanley’s former CEO, John
Mack. As frustration with his leadership grew, so did the departures
of talented people.
In 2005 things got so bad that former Morgan Stanley execu-
tives formed the “Gang of Eight” to lobby the board for Purcell’s
removal. As the departures accelerated and pressure for action from
Wall Street mounted, the board finally recognized it had to choose
between saving Purcell’s job and saving the firm. It chose the firm,
and Purcell was forced to resign. The board persuaded Mack to
return as CEO to restore Morgan Stanley, and he is moving rapidly
to do just that. Purcell has retired to his Utah ranch.
What Causes Leaders to Lose Their Way?
Purcell is not at all unique. He is just one of several dozen well-
known leaders who lost their way in recent years. Let’s look deeper
into the reasons whyleaders lose their way.
Before  people  take  on  leadership  roles,  they  should  first  ask
themselves two fundamental questions: “What motivates me to
lead?”  and  “What  is  the  purpose  of  my  leadership?”  If  honest
answers to the first question are simply power, prestige, and money,
leaders risk being trapped by external gratification as the source of
their fulfillment. There is nothing wrong with desiring these out-
ward symbols as long as they are combined with a deeper desire to serve
something greater than oneself.
Leaders whose goal is gaining power over others, maximizing
wealth, or becoming famous tend to look to other people for satis-
28TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 28

faction and acknowledgment of their status. In public and in pri-
vate, they display a high degree of narcissism. As leaders of institu-
tions, they ultimately believe that the institution cannot survive
without them because in their mind they arethe institution. A
tragic example of this was Richard Grasso in his closing days as
CEO of the New York Stock Exchange. Grasso got so caught up in
his power and celebrity that he lost touch with the negative reac-
tion to a public servant receiving a $130 million compensation
package and was forced to resign by his board.
In contrast, Xerox CEO Anne Mulcahy deflects most media
attention, in spite of her success in turning the company around.
She told us about receiving a telephone call from her mentor, for-
mer CEO David Kearns, when she was in the darkest hours of try-
ing  to  keep  the  company  out  of  bankruptcy  and  fending  off  an
SEC investigation. “Mulcahy, do you believe all that bull they are
writing about you in the newspapers?” Kearns asked over the phone.
“No, David,” Mulcahy replied calmly. “Good,” responded Kearns.
“Then don’t believe it when they start writing about you as the sav-
ior of Xerox.”
Losing Touch with Reality
Leaders who focus on external gratification instead of inner satis-
faction find it difficult to stay grounded. They reject the honest
critic who holds a mirror to their face and speaks the truth. Instead,
they surround themselves with supporters telling them what they
want to hear. Over time, they lose the capacity for honest dialogue,
and people learn not to confront them.
Fearing Failure
Underlying these tendencies may be a fear of failure. Many leaders
advance by imposing their will on others. By the time they reach
the top, they may be paranoid that someone is waiting in the wings
to knock them off their pedestal. Underneath their bravado lies
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY29
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 29

uncertainty that they may not be suitable for such powerful leader-
ship roles, and any day someone is going to unmask them.
To overcome their fears, they drive so hard for perfection that
they are incapable of acknowledging either failures or weaknesses.
When confronted with their failures, they try to cover them up or
to create a rationale that convinces others these problems are not
their fault. Often they look for scapegoats on whom to blame their
problems, either within their organization or outside. Through the
combination of power, charisma, and communications skills, they
convince others to accept these distortions, causing entire organi-
zations to lose touch with reality. In the end, it is their organizations
that suffer.
. . . and Craving Success
The other side of the fear of failure is an insatiable craving for suc-
cess. Most leaders want to do a good job for their organizations
and  to  be  recognized  and  rewarded  accordingly.  When  they
achieve success, they are given added power and enjoy the pres-
tige  that  goes  with  it.  Along  the  way,  success  can  go  to  their
heads, and they develop a sense of entitlement. At the height of
their power, their success creates a deep desire to keep it going.
They are prone to pushing the limits and thinking that they can
get away with it.
Novartis CEO Daniel Vasella described this process in a 2002
Fortunemagazine interview:
Once you get under the domination of making the quarter—even unwit-
tingly . . . you’ll begin to sacrifice things that are important and may be
vital for your company over the long term. The culprit that drives this cycle
isn’t the fear of failure so much as it is the craving for success. . . . For
many of us the idea of being a successful manager is an intoxicating one.
It is a pattern of celebration leading to belief, leading to distortion. When
you achieve good results, you are typically celebrated, and you begin to
30TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 30

believe that the figure at the center of all that champagne toasting is your-
self. You are idealized by the outside world, and there is a natural tendency
to believe that what is written is true.
Turning Failures into Successes
While many leaders have a deep-seated fear of failure, the irony is
that they learn the most from their failures. David Pottruck, former
CEO of Charles Schwab, relishes the opportunity to learn from
every experience: “You don’t have to be perfect,” he said. “You can
start off on a bad path and recover. You can turn most failures into
successes if you ask yourself, what can I learn from this so that I can
do better the next time?” Pottruck believes that the key to learning
from failure is to avoid denial and be honest with yourself. “If you’re
open, you can learn a lot more from failure than success,” he says.
When you’re successful, you take it for granted and move on to the next
thing. Failure forces you to reflect. What went wrong? How could I have
done this better? It’s an opportunity for you to take responsibility. The path
of least resistance is to blame it on someone else. I failed many times but
learned from each experience and usually managed to come back stronger.
I kept plugging away and eventually was successful.
Mike Baker, CEO of Arthrocare, tells the story of the mental
and physical pressures he felt at West Point. “I remember taking my
first advanced statistics exam and absolutely failing. That was seri-
ous business at West Point. If you failed a class, you were out. There
was no margin for error,” he said.
I’m suspicious of somebody who’s never failed, because you don’t know
how they’re going to react when they do. Everyone is born to fail. Every-
one is going to break down. What matters is not how often you have
been on the canvas, but whether you get up, how you get up, and what
you learn from it.
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY31
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 31

In contrast to Pottruck and Baker, some rising leaders have such
a fear of failing that they avoid risks. When they reach the top, they
are not prepared to cope with the greater challenges they face there.
The Loneliness Within
It is lonely at the top. Leaders know they are ultimately responsible
and that the well-being of so many rests in their hands. If they fail,
many people will get hurt. Some leaders simply run faster to ignore
the mounting pressures.
Who can they share their worries with? It can be difficult to talk
with subordinates or their boards of directors about their biggest
problems and deepest fears. Friends outside the organization may
not understand the challenges they are facing, and sharing their
doubts openly may set off rumors. Sometimes it is even difficult to
share these concerns with your spouse or mentor.
As a result of this loneliness, many leaders deny their fears.
They shut down their inner voice because it is too uncomfortable
to hear. Instead, they start listening to the external voices pressur-
ing them, thinking that all will be well if they can satisfy them. But
the advice of outsiders is often conflicting or too painful to face,
so they choose to listen only to people who reinforce their views.
Meanwhile,  their  work  lives  and  personal  lives  grow  more
unbalanced. Fearing failure, they favor their work life, even saying,
“My work ismy life.” Eventually, they lose touch with those closest
to them—their spouses, children, and best friends—or they co-opt
them to their point of view. Over time, little mistakes turn into
major ones. No amount of hard work can correct them. Instead of
seeking wise counsel at this point, they dig a deeper hole. When the
collapse comes, there is no avoiding it.
Who are “they”? They could be one of those executives facing
prosecution for their actions. Or a former CEO or organization head
forced to resign “for personal reasons.” But “they” could also be you,
me, or any one of us.We may not face a plight as severe as these
leaders, but we can all lose our way.
32TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 32

Derailment: Losing Sight of Your True North
In observing leaders who have derailed, we identified five types who
lose sight of their True North. Their shortcomings link directly to
the failure to develop themselves: Imposters,who lack self-awareness
and self-esteem; Rationalizers,who deviate from their values; Glory
Seekers,who are motivated by seeking the world’s acclaim; Loners,
who fail to build personal support structures; and Shooting Stars,who
lack the grounding of an integrated life.
Can you see yourself in any of these archetypes? Could these
characteristics cause you to derail?
Imposters
Imposters rise through the organizational ranks with a combination
of cunning and aggression. They understand the politics of getting
ahead and let no one stand in their way. They are often unabashed
students of Machiavelli, determining every angle to advance as they
execute their game plan. They are the ultimate political animals,
adept at figuring out who their competitors are and then eliminat-
ing them one by one. They have little appetite for self-reflection or
for developing self-awareness.
Abraham Lincoln once said, “If you want to test a man, give
him absolute power.” Having acquired power, Imposters may not be
confident about how to use it. They are beset with doubts about
handling the responsibilities of leadership. Because their greatest
strength is besting internal opponents, they are often paranoid that
underlings are out to get them.
Paralyzed by doubt, they are unable to act decisively. Their inac-
tion leads to poor results and external challenges, so they attack their
critics and cut themselves off from internal feedback. Their most
competent subordinates see their lack of influence on their leader and
move on to greener pastures or else slip into paralytic submission.
Meanwhile, people remaining in the organization do not feel empow-
ered, so they sit back and wait for their leaders to make decisions.
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY33
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 33

Rationalizers
To people outside their organizations, Rationalizers always appear
on top of the issues. When things don’t go their way, they blame
external forces or subordinates or offer facile answers to their prob-
lems. They rarely step up and take responsibility themselves.
As they advance and find themselves facing greater challenges,
they transmit pressure to their subordinates instead of modulating
it. When pressuring subordinates fails to produce the numbers, they
cut funding for research, growth initiatives, or organization build-
ing in the effort to hit immediate goals. Eventually, these short-term
actions catch up with them. Then they borrow from the future to
make today’s numbers look good, or stretch accounting rules, ratio-
nalizing that they can make it up in the future.
Unfortunately, their actions only make the future worse. So
they turn to more aggressive schemes, such as reporting future rev-
enue streams in quarterly sales or filling customer warehouses with
inventory. When these short-term actions fail to stem the tide,
they  resort  to  even  more  desperate  measures.  Ultimately,  they
become victims of their own rationalizations, as do their depleted
organizations.
The misdeeds of Rationalizers have become all too apparent in
recent years. The high stock prices of the 1990s, based on ever-
higher expectations of revenue growth, led many executives to play
the game of meeting stock market expectations while sacrificing the
long-term value of their companies. Even years later, many Ratio-
nalizers cling to denial, unwilling to take responsibility for problems
they caused. As Warren Bennis says, “Denial and projection are the
enemies of reality.”
Glory Seekers
Glory Seekers define themselves by acclaim of the external world.
Money, fame, glory, and power are their goals, as they pursue visible
signs of success. Often it seems more important to them to appear
34TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 34

on lists of the most powerful business leaders than it does to build
organizations of lasting value.
Their thirst for fame is unquenchable. There are always people
with more money, more accolades, and more power, so no achieve-
ment is sufficient. Inside, these people feel empty. Sometimes the
emptiness creates envy of those who have more, a quality that is
hard for outsiders to comprehend from someone who seems to have
it all.
Loners
Loners avoid forming close relationships, seeking out mentors, or
creating support networks. They believe they can and must make it
on their own. Not to be confused with introverts, Loners often have
a myriad of superficial relationships and acolytes, but they do not
listen to them. They reject honest feedback, even from those who
care about them.
Without wise counsel, Loners are prone to make major mistakes.
When results elude them and criticism of their leadership grows,
they circle the wagons. They become rigid in pursuing their objec-
tives, not recognizing it is their behavior that makes it impossible for
them to reach their goals. Meanwhile, their organizations unravel.
Shooting Stars
The  lives  of  Shooting  Stars  center  entirely  on  their  careers.  To
observers, they are perpetual motion machines, always on the go,
traveling incessantly to get ahead. They rarely make time for fam-
ily,  friendships,  their  communities,  or  even  themselves.  Much-
needed sleep and exercise routines are expendable. As they run ever
faster, their stress mounts.
They move up so rapidly in their careers that they never have
time to learn from their mistakes. A year or two into any job, they
are ready to move on, before they have had to confront the results
of their decisions. When they see problems of their making coming
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY35
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 35

back to haunt them, their anxiety rises and so does the urgency to
move to a new position. If their employer doesn’t promote them,
they are off to another organization. One day they find themselves
at the top, overwhelmed by an intractable set of problems. At this
point, they are prone to irrational decisions.
Heroes of Their Own Journeys
All five archetypal leaders described here—Imposters, Rationaliz-
ers, Glory Seekers, Loners, and Shooting Stars—frame their life sto-
ries in the model of an all-conquering hero. This approach may
work well for musicians, actors, or athletes who excel as solo per-
formers. It fails utterly when one leads a team, precisely because
being a hero is notempowering to teammates or subordinates.
The role of leaders is not to get other people to follow them but
to  empower  others  to  lead.  They  cannot  elicit  the  best  perfor-
mance from their teams if they are in the game primarily for them-
selves. In the end, their self-centeredness keeps other people from
leading. Why should they, when it is for the leader’s glory and not
the team’s success?
Kevin  Sharer:  Getting  Back  on  Track.  Many  leaders  ask
whether you can rebound after losing your way. Let’s look at the
story of a talented leader who worked hard at becoming authentic,
almost lost his way, and then got back on track.
Amgen’s chairman and CEO, Kevin Sharer, is one of the most
successful CEOs in the United States today, but in 1989 he faced the
most difficult situation of his life. Having succeeded at everything
he had done, Sharer was facing failure for the first time. A rising star
at General Electric, he was eager to get to the top and thought he
could succeed at any leadership challenge. He jumped ship from GE
to join the telecommunications company MCI because he thought
he had a shot at the top job within two years.
“MCI was a crucible for me,” Sharer observed later. “I learned
that whether you are right or not, there is a price to be paid for arro-
36TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 36

gance.” He also realized his style did not suit MCI’s hypercompeti-
tive culture. “People were personally competitive in a way that was
not consistent with my values,” he explained.
The internal competition was mean-spirited and at your throat. It was eat-
ing me up as I was becoming less effective and less committed to the com-
pany. If your values are not consistent with the people you’re working
with, you should not be there.
Desperate to escape from the MCI environment, Sharer tele-
phoned Jack Welch about returning to GE. Welch wasn’t happy
with  the  sudden  way  Sharer  had  bailed  out  of  GE  after  he  had
opened  up  so  many  opportunities.  “Hey,  Kevin,  forget  you  ever
worked here,” Welch replied. “At that moment,” Sharer recalled,
“I knew I had been cast adrift in a lifeboat.”
I realized I had to make a go of this big operating job. I couldn’t just bail
out. It was a gut-wrenching two years for me, the most challenging and
unhappy time of my professional life. I’m not a good knife fighter, and I
was getting outmaneuvered. At first I went into denial. Then I became
defeatist and cynical.
Finally,  Sharer  said  to  himself,  “I’m  not  going  to  play  these
games. I’m not going to be a sharp-elbowed, mean-spirited guy.”
It was grinding me down, and I began to retreat emotionally. My wife
could not understand what I was going through because she had no corpo-
rate experience. She feared I would be fired, which only added to my feel-
ing of isolation. Without question, it was the toughest time of my life.
Kevin Sharer’s story of discovering his True North parallels the
difficulties that many leaders face. They are pulled by the challenges
and their egos into ever more complex situations, where they have
to learn to confront their weaknesses and their failures. If they have
self-awareness and insight, they readjust their compass to get back
on the track of their True North.
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY37
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 37

Sharer’s dream as a boy had been to follow in his father’s foot-
steps as a naval aviator. He attended the U.S. Naval Academy, but
shortly before graduation his dream was shattered when he failed
the eyesight exam. Bouncing back quickly, he applied for admission
to the navy’s prestigious nuclear submarine program. Just two weeks
later, he was interviewed by the program’s famous creator, Admiral
Hyman Rickover, and was admitted.
After sailing under the waters of the world for five years as chief
engineer on a nuclear submarine, Sharer joined McKinsey, where
his role model became founder Marvin Bower. Two years later, he
had the opportunity to join GE as Welch’s assistant.
In his interview Welch immediately put Sharer on the spot,
asking “Why should I hire you? You never took a risk in your life.”
He took the bait, telling Welch, “I took a nuclear submarine off the
coast of Russia at age twenty-six.” Then he decided to challenge
Welch, asking him, “What risk did you ever take, except with your
company’s money?” That got him the job.
His experiences with the navy and McKinsey prepared Sharer
for the bare-knuckle intensity of the GE environment. His success
at GE led to his first general-management opportunity while he
was  still  in  his  mid-thirties.  Looking  back  on  his  time  at  GE,
Sharer said, “I gained priceless experience by observing Welch’s
leadership.”
By age forty, Sharer ran GE’s satellite business, was elected a
corporate officer, and hit the company’s list of its top one hundred
executives. This would be heady stuff for anyone, but especially for
someone as ambitious as Kevin. When the headhunters came look-
ing for a new head of sales and marketing for MCI, he seized the
opportunity to leapfrog his career.
“The CEO race is wide open,” MCI’s vice chairman assured
Sharer.  Once  again,  Sharer  took  the  bait.  This  time,  however,
things  did  not  go  his  way.  Upon  joining  the  company,  Sharer
learned that the chief operating officer was in line for the top slot
and didn’t welcome competition from the ambitious young hotshot
from GE.
38TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 38

Sharer wasted no time in developing his strategy to transform
MCI and position himself. Within six weeks, he concluded that the
company’s geographic marketing organization was improperly struc-
tured. “I was at the zenith of my arrogance at that time,” Sharer
said. “I marched into the chairman’s office and proposed a restruc-
turing of MCI’s sales organization.” His proposal was threatening to
senior executives who had spent their careers building MCI. Lack-
ing  telecommunications  experience,  Sharer  found  he  had  little
credibility within the organization.
Sharer’s crucible at MCI proved invaluable to him. It hum-
bled him, forced him to control his ego and recognize there is
more to life than just grabbing the next promotion. Caught up in
the glamour of being a rising star, Sharer was brought down to real-
ity by MCI.
Two years after joining MCI, Sharer received a letter asking if
he knew anyone who could be president of Amgen. Never having
heard of the company, he went to the public library to learn about
it. He decided to nominate himself for the job and was offered the
position, under the tutelage of CEO Gordon Binder.
Having learned a painful lesson at MCI about being perceived
as  a  “know-it-all,”  he  recognized  he  knew  nothing  about  the
biotechnology business. “If I hadn’t had that chastening experience
at MCI, I could easily have blown up at Amgen,” he said.
My last brush with health care had been ninth-grade biology, so I asked
one of our scientists to teach me biology. By being patient, I became an
insider before I started making changes. I learned the business from the
ground up, made calls with sales representatives, and showed my desire
to learn.
In  contrast  to  his  earlier  experiences,  Sharer  was  unusually
patient  for  seven  years  while  understudying  Binder.  This  time
around he avoided the seduction of the headhunters, telling them
being number two at a rapidly growing company like Amgen was
“better than anything else that was on the plate.” A year before
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY39
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 39

Binder’s retirement, the board told Sharer, “Look, Kevin, you’ve got
the job. For the next year spend your time learning R&D.” Sharer
studied the Amgen research process from the ground up, working
in its labs, being tutored by scientists, and visiting competitors’
research facilities.
When the board announced that Sharer would become CEO,
he met individually with the top 150 people in the company. Lis-
tening to their feedback gave Sharer a thorough picture of what the
company’s top leaders wanted.
These interviews were the single most important thing I did upon becom-
ing CEO. They gave me the mandate to create a shared reality for the
company. That enabled people to align around the new vision and strat-
egy for building Amgen for the next ten years.
Kevin Sharer’s searing experience enabled him to return to his
True North. By being introspective about his role in the MCI deba-
cle, he recognized changes he needed to make. Landing at the top
of Amgen, he did not fail to learn the lessons of his earlier experi-
ence. He focused on learning the business before taking charge, lis-
tened  to  the  wisdom  and  experience  of  his  colleagues,  and  was
patient in reaching his goal.
So far his efforts to become an authentic leader have paid off for
Sharer and for Amgen. In Sharer’s first six years as CEO, Amgen’s
revenues grew at a 25 percent clip, with earnings and market capi-
talization increasing rapidly. The company has been transformed
from a two-drug firm to a highly innovative organization that con-
tinues to produce breakthrough drugs from its labs.
Contemplating his MCI experience fifteen years later, Sharer
reflected, “We are the mosaic of all of our experiences.”
In retrospect, the MCI experience wasn’t all bad. I learned what a truly
competitive company can do, and I learned about entrepreneurship and
innovation. A tough experience like that gives you genuine empathy for
other people.
40TRUE NORTH
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 40

Contrasting his experiences at MCI and Amgen, Sharer com-
mented, “It is vitally important that you love what you do because
if you don’t, you won’t do your best.”
It is powerful when you connect with a product. When I was at MCI, I
never had an emotional connection with low-priced long distance. If some-
body walks up to you and says “your product saved my life,” the power of
that connection is enormous.
Sharer’s story illustrates that leaders who temporarily lose their
way can indeed get back on track if they learn that leadership is not
about them but about empowering others to lead. That is the trans-
formation from “I” to “We” that we’ll explore in the next chapter.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Three, you may want
to complete the Chapter Two Exercise found in Appendix C.
WHY LEADERS LOSE THEIR WAY41
c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 41

c02.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 42

43
3
TRANSFORMATION
FROM “I” TO “WE”
When you become a leader, your challenge is to inspire
others, develop them, and create change through them.
You’ve got to flip that switch and understand that
it’s about serving the folks on your team.
—Jaime Irick, General Electric
What enables leaders like Kevin Sharer to avoid derailment and
make the transition from being heroes of their own journeys to
become authentic leaders who empower other leaders? Most of the
leaders we interviewed had transformative experiences on their
journeys that enabled them to recognize that leading was not about
their success but the success they could create by empowering oth-
ers to lead.
In his best-selling novel, The Alchemist,Paulo Coelho tells the
story of Santiago, a shepherd boy who travels to the desert in search
of a treasure. We, too, start out on our journeys in search of our trea-
sure, whether it is material or spiritual. As we enter the world of
work, we envision ourselves in the image of a hero who can change
the world for the better.
This is a perfectly natural embarkation point for leaders. After
all, so much of our early success in life depends upon our individual
efforts, from the grades we earn in school to our performance in
individual sports to our initial jobs. Admissions offices and employ-
ers examine those achievements most closely and use them to make
comparisons. Early leadership opportunities are often limited to
team sports, student government, and school organizations.
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 43

As we are promoted from individual roles to management, we
start to believe we are being recognized for our ability to get others
to follow us. But if we believe that leadership is just about getting
others to follow us and do ourbidding as we climb the organization
ladder, we risk being derailed.
You may reach the point in your journey when your way for-
ward is blocked or your worldview is turned upside down by events,
and you have to rethink what your life and leadership are all about.
You start to question yourself: “Am I good enough?” “Why can’t I
get this team to achieve the goals I have set forth?” Or you may
have a personal experience that causes you to realize that there is
more to life than getting to the top.
Transformation: The Vital Step on Your Journey
To become authentic leaders, we must discard the myth that lead-
ership means having legions of supporters following our direction as
we ascend to the pinnacles of power. Only then can we realize that
authentic leadership is about empowering others on their journeys.
This shift is the transformation from “I” to “We.” It is the most
important process leaders go through in becoming authentic. How
else can they unleash the power of their organizations unless they
motivate people to reach their full potential? If our supporters are
merely following our lead, then their efforts are limited to our vision
and our directions about what needs to be done.
Jaime Irick, a graduate of West Point and rising star at General
Electric, offered an insight into this process. “You have to realize
that it’s not about you,” he explained.
We spend our early years trying to be the best. To get into West Point or
General Electric, you have to be the best. That is defined by what you can
do on your own—your ability to be a phenomenal analyst or consultant
or do well on a standardized test. When you become a leader, your chal-
lenge is to inspire others, develop them, and create change through them.
If you want to be a leader, you’ve got to flip that switch and understand
44TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 44

that it’s about serving the folks on your team. This is a very simple con-
cept, but one many people overlook. The sooner people realize it, the faster
they will become leaders.
Only when leaders stop focusing on their personal ego needs are
they able to develop other leaders. They feel less competitive with
talented peers and subordinates and are more open to other points
of view, enabling them to make better decisions. As they overcome
their need to control everything, they learn that people are more
interested in working with them. A lightbulb goes on as they rec-
ognize  the  unlimited  potential  of  empowered  leaders  working
together toward a shared purpose.
A transformative experience may come at any point in your life.
It could result from the positive experience of having a wise men-
tor or having a unique opportunity at a young age. But as much as
we  all  want  positive  experiences  like  these,  transformations  for
many leaders result from going through a crucible.
Figure 3.1  The Transformation from “I” to “We”
Character
Formation
Rubbing Up
Against the World
Stepping Up
to Lead
Crucibles
Peak
Leadership
Generativity:
Wisdom and Giving
Back
30
6090
Preparing for LeadershipLeadingGiving Back
Age
Leadership
Development
Phase IIIPhase IIPhase I
Transformation
From “I” to
“We”
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”45
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 45

In Geeks and Geezers,Warren Bennis and Robert Thomas describe
the concept of the crucible as an experience that tests leaders to
their  limits.  A  crucible  can  be  triggered  by  events  such  as  con-
fronting a difficult situation at work, receiving critical feedback, or
losing your job. Or it may result from a painful personal experience
such as divorce, illness, or the death of a loved one.
Dan Vasella: The Long Journey to Transformation. Novartis
Chairman and CEO Daniel Vasella followed a path to leadership
that  was  one  of  the  most  difficult  and  unusual  of  all  our  inter-
viewees. Vasella’s emergence from extreme challenges in his youth
to reach the pinnacle of the global pharmaceutical industry illus-
trates the transformation many leaders go through on their journeys.
Vasella was born in 1953 in a modest family in Fribourg, Switzer-
land. His early years were filled with medical problems that stoked
his passion to become a physician. His first recollections of a hospi-
tal date from age four when he had food poisoning. Since his fam-
ily had no car, the physician came to his home, packed him in a
blanket, and drove him to the hospital, leaving him with positive
memories.
Suffering  from  asthma  at  age  five,  he  was  sent  alone  to  the
mountains of eastern Switzerland for two summers. There he lived
on a farm with three brothers and their niece. Everyone in the area
spoke Romanisch, a language young Dan could not understand. He
found the four-month separations from his parents especially diffi-
cult because the niece had an alcohol problem and was insensitive
to him. One day the niece caught him with coins stolen from the
Postal Service office. The shame of having to give the coins back
had a strong impact on Dan, as did the kindness of one of the broth-
ers who felt sorry for him and put one coin in his empty purse.
At age eight, he had tuberculosis followed by meningitis and
was sent for a year to a sanatorium. He suffered a great deal that year
from being lonely and homesick, as his parents very rarely visited
him. He still remembers the pain and fear of the lumbar punctures
as the nurses held him down so that he would not move.
46TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 46

One day a new physician arrived and took time to explain each
step of the procedure. Vasella asked the physician if he could hold
the nurse’s hand rather than being held down. “The amazing thing
is that this time the procedure didn’t hurt. Afterward, he asked me,
‘How  was  that?’  I  reached  up  and  gave  him  a  big  hug.”  Vasella
recalled, “These very human gestures of forgiveness, caring, and
compassion made a deep impression on me and on the kind of per-
son I wanted to become.”
In his early years, Vasella’s life never settled. When he was ten,
his eighteen-year-old sister passed away after suffering from cancer
for two years. Three years later, his father died in surgery. To support
the family, his mother went to work in a distant town and came
home  only  once  every  three  weeks.  Left  to  himself,  he  and  his
friends had beer parties and got into frequent fights. This lasted for
three years until he met his first girlfriend, whose affection changed
his attitude.
At twenty Vasella entered medical school at the University of
Fribourg. “I decided to become a physician so I could understand
health, and gain more control over my own life after disease had
impacted my family so much,” he explained. “Memories of the com-
passionate  doctor  at  the  sanatorium  and  others  who  helped  me
became role models for the kind of physician I wanted to be.”
During medical school, Vasella sought out psychoanalysis so he
could come to terms with his early experiences. “I wanted to under-
stand myself and not feel like a victim,” he said. “I learned eventu-
ally that I did not have to be in control all the time.” Through
analysis, he reframed his life story and realized he did not want to
be just an individual practitioner but wanted to have an impact on
the  lives  of  many  more  people  by  running  an  organization  that
helped restore people to fuller health. Graduating with honors from
medical school, Vasella did his residency at the Universities of Bern
and Zurich, eventually becoming chief resident. Upon completion,
he applied to become chief physician at the University of Zurich
hospital; however, the search committee considered him too young
for the position.
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”47
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 47

Disappointed but not surprised, Vasella decided he wanted to
use  his  leadership  to  broaden  his  impact  on  medicine.  At  that
time, he had a growing fascination with finance and business. He
talked to his wife’s uncle, Marc Moret, who was CEO of Sandoz,
one of Switzerland’s leading chemical companies, about his inter-
est in getting into business. Moret advised him, “Believe me, I
know how unpleasant it can be leading a firm. You don’t want to
go into business.”
Moret’s discouraging words only piqued Vasella’s interest. Even-
tually he met with the head of the pharmaceutical division, who
offered him the opportunity to join Sandoz’s U.S. affiliate as a sales
representative and later a product manager. Vasella hesitated, but
his wife, Anne-Laurence, told him, “Daniel, do it; otherwise, you
will turn fifty, look back in regret, and be unhappy.” In his five years
in the United States, he flourished in the stimulating environment
and advanced rapidly through the Sandoz marketing organization.
Returning to Switzerland as assistant to the chief operating offi-
cer of Sandoz’s pharmaceutical business, Vasella was forced to take a
step back. As he languished without responsibilities in a cubicle out-
side his boss’s office, he became frustrated in his new role. “My pay
was cut by 40 percent, and I wrote minutes and did my boss’s mail.”
Soon he was asked to lead a team to redesign the R&D process,
giving him intimate knowledge of drug discovery and development.
His next steps led him to head of marketing and then global drug
development. When both his bosses left in a political battle, he
became CEO of the pharmaceutical division. Vasella loved his new
position because he now had full responsibility for moving the phar-
maceutical business forward.
Within  two  years  negotiations  began  to  merge  Sandoz  with
Ciba-Geigy, its crosstown rival in Basel. It was a natural fit, facili-
tated because neither company had a successor to its powerful CEO.
In spite of Vasella’s youth and limited experience, Moret nominated
him to be CEO of the merged companies. Ciba-Geigy leadership
agreed, as their CEO became chairman of the board of the new
company: Novartis.
48TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 48

Once in the CEO’s role, Vasella blossomed as a leader. He envi-
sioned the opportunity to build a great global health care company
that could help people through lifesaving new drugs. Drawing on
the physician role models of his youth, he created an entirely new
Novartis culture built around compassion, competence, and com-
petition.  He  went  beyond  integrating  the  two  organizations  by
empowering new leaders throughout the new organization.
One of these new drugs was Gleevec, which Vasella found lan-
guishing in the Novartis research labs. Stunned by positive results
in preliminary clinical trials for patients with chronic myelogenous
leukemia, Vasella was upset to learn that the drug was being given
low priority due to modest market projections. He convinced his
team that the drug had to get to market within two years, breaking
all records for FDA approvals. Characteristic of his passion for help-
ing patients, Vasella had personal contact with many Gleevec users.
Gleevec is just one of a continuing stream of lifesaving drugs
emerging from Novartis research labs as Vasella dramatically expanded
the company’s research budget and moved its research headquarters
to Massachusetts. These moves established Novartis as one of the
global health care giants and Vasella as a compassionate leader in
the industry.
Dan Vasella says his greatest satisfaction comes when his orga-
nization is fulfilling its mission. “My childhood illnesses, the deaths
of my father and my sister, and the experience of patients’ dying all
had a very powerful impact on my life.”
As CEO, I have the leverage to impact the lives of many more people. I can
do what I believe is right, based on my moral compass. At the end of the
day the only thing that matters is what we do or omit to do for other people.
Vasella is a rare leader who can address the most difficult busi-
ness challenges in an engaged and thoughtful manner yet maintain
his deep compassion for the patients Novartis serves. By increasing
his  self-awareness  and  reframing  his  life  story  through  psycho-
analysis, Vasella accelerated his transformation from “I” to “We,”
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”49
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 49

recognizing he wanted to go beyond being a compassionate physi-
cian and instead use his leadership to help millions of people suf-
fering from life-threatening disease.
Oprah Winfrey: Reframing Her Story at Thirty-Six. Often it
takes a triggering experience before you can realize the essential pur-
pose of your leadership. Oprah Winfrey was in the middle of an inter-
view on her show with a woman named Trudy Chase who had been
sexually abused as a child. Hearing Chase’s story, Oprah was over-
come with emotion. “I thought I was going to have a breakdown on
television. I said, ‘Stop! Stop! You’ve got to stop the cameras!’ ” But
the cameras kept rolling as feelings roiled inside her. Chase’s story
triggered many traumatic memories from her own childhood. “That
was the first day I recognized that I was not to blame,” she said.
Her demons had haunted her without explanation until that
day. “I became sexually promiscuous as a teenager and got myself
into a lot of trouble. I believed I was responsible for it. It wasn’t
until I was thirty-six years old that I realized, ‘Oh that’s why I was
that way.’ I always blamed myself.”
Born out of wedlock, Winfrey grew up in poverty in rural Mis-
sissippi. When she was very young, her mother moved north to find
work. “I was left with my grandmother. It probably saved my life. It
is the reason why I am where I am today.” Yet even as a young child,
she had a vision that she could make something of her life. She
recalled standing outside on the back porch when she was four,
watching her grandmother boiling the laundry in a large cauldron.
“I remember thinking, ‘My life won’t be like this. It will be better,’ ”
she said. “It wasn’t from a place of arrogance; it was just a place of
knowing that things could be different for me somehow.”
Winfrey credits her illiterate grandmother for teaching her to
read. “Reading opened the door to all kinds of possibilities for me.
I loved books so much as a child, as they were my outlet to the
world.” She recited biblical verses in church from the age of three,
which endowed her with a reservoir of self-confidence. “All the sis-
ters sitting in the front row would fan themselves and turn to my
50TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 50

grandmother and say, ‘Ida Mae, this child is gifted.’ I heard that
enough that I started to believe it. I didn’t even know what ‘gifted’
meant. I just thought it meant I was special.”
Relocating to Milwaukee to be with her mother when she was
nine, Oprah recalled the trauma of being raped by her cousin. She
was molested several more times by family members or friends of
the family during the five years she lived with her mother. “It was
an ongoing, continuous thing, so much so that I started to think,
‘This is the way life is.’ ” At age fourteen, she gave premature birth
to a child who lived only two weeks.
Like most of us, Winfrey started out trying to make it in the
world as an individual contributor. She went to college, and while
there she had her first opportunity in broadcasting. “It was very
uncomfortable for me at first,” she explained. “I was pretending to
be Barbara Walters, looking nothing like her. I had to take the heat
from my college classmates calling me a token. I used to say, ‘Yeah,
but I’m a paid token.’ ”
Today Winfrey has built a media empire that is one of the most
respected in the world that includes her own production company,
named Harpo (Oprah spelled backwards). But it was not until the
Trudy Chase interview that she realized her broader mission. Ever since
the traumatic experiences of her youth, she had felt the need to please
people and could never say no. That day she finally understood why.
Since then, her mission has gone far beyond pursuing personal success
to empowering people all around the world, especially young women.
“I was always searching for love, affection, and attention, and
somebody to say, ‘Yes, you are worthy.’ The greatest lesson of my life
has been to recognize that I am solely responsible for my life—not
living to please other people, but doing what my heart says.” Asked
about her show’s theme, Winfrey replies, “The message has always
been the same: you are responsible for your own life. I hope the
work I do on the show and in speaking around the country can help
young people get the lesson sooner than I did.”
Winfrey’s  story  illustrates  the  kind  of  transformative  events
most authentic leaders experience in their lives. It is naive to think
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”51
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 51

that  you  can  go  through  life  without  difficulties,  or  spend  your
entire life trying to avoid them. Life is not always fair. It is often dur-
ing the hard times in your life that you realize that authentic lead-
ership is not about advancing yourself and your personal interests.
Rather, it is the capacity to inspire others to bring out their best.
Like many others, I saw Oprah as a celebrity and missed the real
impact of her leadership and its effect on the lives of her viewers.
When I talked with her for three hours at the 2004 Nobel Peace
Prize dinner in Oslo, Norway, I heard firsthand just how passionate
she is to influence millions of people and embolden them to take
responsibility for their lives. From Oslo, Winfrey was on her way to
Africa with a planeload of books and supplies to help people and to
launch a new school to empower young women, where she has per-
sonally invested $30 million.
Given the abuse and poverty she experienced earlier in her life,
it would have been easy for Winfrey to get caught up in feelings of
victimhood. Yet she rose above them by reframing her story in pos-
itive terms: first about taking responsibility for her life and then in
recognizing her mission to empower others to take responsibility for
theirs.  Her  transformation  did  not  occur  until  her  mid-thirties.
Often the gestation takes that long because we need real experi-
ences to see where we fit in the world and help us understand the
meaning of those difficult experiences for our personal missions.
Jim Thompson: The Power of a Mentor. When people find a
mentor they deeply respect, the relationship can have a transfor-
mative effect and open up their vision of what they can become as
leaders. Jim Thompson, executive director of the Positive Coach-
ing Alliance, struggled for many years to find his True North until
he met John Gardner, who served in President Lyndon Johnson’s
cabinet.
Growing up in South Dakota, Thompson was a good athlete
and student but never saw himself as a leader who could have a
national impact. In his early years, he tried teaching and govern-
ment service but struggled to find his place. After attending Stan-
52TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 52

ford’s business school, he returned to run its public-management
program. It was there that he met Gardner, who helped him see
himself as someone with a larger role to play. From their first con-
versation, Gardner treated Thompson as an equal and told him it
had taken him many years to find his own calling.
Through coaching his son, Thompson decided that the “win at
all costs” mentality of youth sports was destroying kids’ fun and
learning. Gardner encouraged him to pursue his passion with vigor.
He helped him get appointed to a national task force on building
character  through  sports  and  supported  him  in  writing  a  book.
Thompson’s Positive  Coachingoutlined  the  ways  coaches  could
teach kids lessons about character, team building, and life. Sharing
his experience in building Common Cause into a national organi-
zation, Gardner prodded Thompson to launch a national move-
ment to transform the culture of youth sports.
Thompson credits Gardner’s influence with helping him trans-
form his view of himself, his capabilities, and his purpose so that he
could help others. In 1998 Thompson founded the Positive Coach-
ing Alliance, building it into a national organization that has run
youth coaching workshops for more than 100,000 coaches across
the United States, in large part due to John Gardner’s encourage-
ment and mentoring.
Doug Baker: Getting Tough Feedback. One of the hardest
things to do is to see ourselves as others see us. When we receive
unexpected critical feedback, we tend initially to be defensive—to
challenge the validity of the criticism or the critics themselves. If
we can get past those feelings and process the criticism objectively,
however, constructive feedback can trigger a fundamental reap-
praisal of our leadership.
That’s what Doug Baker Jr. learned when he was rising through
the ranks of Minnesota-based Ecolab. After working in marketing in
Germany for three years, Baker moved to North Carolina as deputy
head of a newly acquired company. To integrate his team, Baker
hired a coach to conduct 360-degree assessments and facilitate group
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”53
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 53

sessions. “I elected to be first to go through the high-impact leader-
ship program.”
At thirty-four, Baker saw himself as a fast-rising star, moving
rapidly from one leadership role to the next. “I had become, frankly,
fairly arrogant and was pushing my own agenda.” Then he got the
results from the 360-degree process, in which his colleagues told
him all this and more. “It was a cathartic experience. I got a major
dose of criticism I didn’t expect,” he said.
As part of this process, I went away for five days with a dozen strangers
from different companies and shared my feedback with them. Since I had
been so understanding in this session, I expected people to say, “How
could your team possibly give you that feedback?” Instead, I got the same
critical feedback from this new group.
It was as if someone flashed a mirror in front of me at my absolute
worst. What I saw was horrifying, but it was also a great lesson. After
that, I did a lot of soul-searching about what kind of leader I was going to
be. I talked to everyone on my Ecolab team about what I had learned,
telling them, “Let’s have a conversation. I need your help.”
Meanwhile, Baker’s division was challenged by a larger com-
petitor who threatened to take away its business with McDonald’s,
which accounted for the bulk of its revenues. When he forecast a
significant shortfall from his financial plan, the corporate CEO trav-
eled to North Carolina to find out what was going on. Asked by the
CEO to commit to saving the McDonald’s business and getting
back on plan, Baker refused to give him any assurances. This raised
the CEO’s ire, but Baker held his ground. Reflecting on his candor
in confronting his powerful leader, Baker commented, “I’d rather
have a bad meeting than a bad life.”
If we had lost McDonald’s, it would be embarrassing for me, but it was
all these folks in the plant who were really going to be hurt. There was
unemployment all over North Carolina as many factories were shutting
down. If they don’t have a job here, they don’t have a job, period. Sud-
denly, you find the cause is a call to the heart. Saving the McDonald’s
54TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 54

account created a lot of energy and fortunately, we retained the busi-
ness. It was a traumatic time, but ultimately a great learning experience
for me.
Doug Baker’s critical feedback came at just the right time. On
the verge of becoming overly self-confident and thinking that lead-
ership  was  about  his  success,  the  criticism  brought  him  back  to
earth. It enabled him to realize that his role as a leader was to unite
the people in his organization around a common purpose, and the
challenge of saving the McDonald’s account provided a rallying
point for that unity. Under pressure from the CEO to deliver short-
term numbers, Baker kept his organization focused on the long-
term objective of building the business. This experience paved the
way for him to become CEO of Ecolab.
Gail McGovern: “It’s Not Fair.” Gail McGovern, a former
telecommunications executive who is currently a business school
professor, told of struggling with her own leadership. “Within one
month I went from being the best programmer to the worst super-
visor that Bell of Pennsylvania had,” she said.
It’s unbelievable how bad I was. I didn’t know how to delegate. When
somebody would have a question about something they were working on,
I’d pick it up and do it. My group was not accomplishing anything because
I was on the critical path of everything. My boss and mentor saw that we
were imploding and did an amazing thing. He gave me every new project
that came in. It was unreal. At 4:30 my team would leave, and I’d be
working day and night trying to dig through this stuff.
Finally, I couldn’t take it any longer. I went into his office and stamped
my foot like a five-year-old. “It’s not fair. I have the work of ten people.”
He said calmly, “Look out there. You’ve got ten people. Put them to
work.” It was such a startling revelation. I said sheepishly, “I get it.”
Have you ever had a difficult time absorbing constructive criti-
cism? Hard as it is to take in, feedback provides the opportunity to
make the transformation from focusing on ourselves to understanding
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”55
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 55

how we can be effective motivators and leaders of others, just as Baker
and McGovern did. This requires letting go and trusting others.
Steve Rothschild: Finding His Calling. Steve Rothschild had
been on the move at General Mills. He created the Yoplait yogurt
business in the United States and put it on course to become a
$1 billion business. Promoted to executive vice president while still in
his thirties, he faced many new challenges, but after eight years
in this role he became restless. He felt like a man in the middle, miss-
ing the satisfaction of leading his own team. He also  disagreed with
the company’s direction, judging it had to become more global. His
frustration came to a head when he was asked to present the com-
pany’s international business strategy to its board of directors. “My
conclusion was that we ought to be doing more internationally,
because we couldn’t rely on domestic growth forever,” he explained.
While in Spain on business, he got a frantic phone call from the
company president, who told him the CEO wanted to change the
recommendation to expand internationally. Rothschild replied, “I
can’t do that because I don’t believe it.” He explained, “The CEO
wanted me to heel, but never talked to me directly.” Shortly after
that incident, Rothschild faced up to the reality that he was march-
ing to a different drummer and wasn’t enjoying his work. After some
reflection, he decided it was time to leave General Mills. “I was stuck
in a job I no longer enjoyed. I needed to feel alive again,” he said.
After a year of spending more time with his working wife and
one of their three children still at home, Rothschild decided against
rejoining the corporate world. He realized his passions were in help-
ing poor, underprivileged people become financially self-sufficient
and develop stronger families. Using his own money, he founded
Twin Cities RISE! Its mission is to provide employers with skilled
workers by training unemployed and underemployed adults, espe-
cially African American men, for skilled jobs that pay a wage of at
least $20,000 per year with benefits.
Leaving General Mills was a godsend for me. It allowed me to explore
things that were underneath my skin and in my soul and gave me the
56TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 56

opportunity to refocus on my marriage and family. Since leaving, my
relationships with my family have become much closer and deeper. Mak-
ing this move has made me a more complete person, more fulfilled and
happier.
Leaders react to “hitting the wall” in one of two ways. The expe-
rience can be sobering—as it was for Jeff Immelt—when they real-
ize they are not superhuman and have to face difficult trials like
everyone else. This enables them to be more empathic and empow-
ering  to  the  people  around  them.  Or  they  may  decide,  as  Steve
Rothschild did, that fundamental changes are required in their lives
and wind up pursuing different career directions. In either case, such
a crucible provides the basis for the transformation from “I” to “We.”
Mike Sweeney: Dealing with Personal Illness. Mike Sweeney,
CEO of the private equity firm of Goldner Hawn, was only twenty-
eight when he discovered he had testicular cancer. “That was the
first time I realized I wasn’t immortal,” he said.
In some ways I’d recommend it to everyone. If you’re going to get cancer,
testicular cancer is the one to get because it is curable in most cases. Can-
cer caused me to think very differently about my life.
Sweeney described an experience he had after all the treat-
ments were done:
I woke up one morning and literally couldn’t get up off the sofa. I got hit
by a wave of depression that I had never experienced before. It wasn’t a
matter of will. I just could not get up. While I was fighting cancer, my
work was to heal. When that stopped, the room got really quiet, and all of
a sudden I realized, holy cow, I could die. At that age the thought of death
never occurs to you.
The experience changed the way Sweeney thought and pro-
pelled him on a path of understanding himself better and rethink-
ing his life and his career.
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”57
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 57

The shock of not being able to get up off the sofa scared me. I spent a lot
of time thinking about what I want to do, what is meaningful in my life,
and who do I want to do it with. I saw a psychiatrist and talked about hav-
ing cancer not as a physical matter, but an emotional one. Cancer gave
me clarity about those things.
His father told him that now his cancer problem was solved, he
should shake it off and get back to work. “I thought there was more
involved than that,” Sweeney says.
I started asking myself what is important to me in business and in life. I
wouldn’t say I was less ambitious. I just wanted different kinds of things
out  of  life.  I  wanted  to  create  and  build  businesses  where  everyone
involved did as well as I did.
When you face your own mortality, as Mike Sweeney did, your
priorities and your True North become crystal clear. The same is
true when someone close to you passes away.
Losing  a  Loved  One.  When  you  meet  Carlson  Companies’
CEO Marilyn Carlson Nelson for the first time, you are struck by
her warmth, her zest for life, and her optimism that any problem
can be solved by inspiring people to step up and lead. Yet hers is a
more complex story. As if it were yesterday, she vividly recalls learn-
ing the news of her daughter’s death. “My husband and I heard one
morning that our beautiful nineteen-year-old Juliet had been killed
in an automobile accident.”
That’s the most profound test we’ve ever had, a test of our faith and our
personal relationship. I lost my faith at the time and felt angry with God.
But God didn’t abandon me and didn’t let me go. I discovered how valu-
able every day is and how valuable each person is. I decided to make what-
ever time I had left meaningful so that the time that Juliet didn’t have
would be well spent. My husband and I vowed to use every tool at hand
as an opportunity to give back or a way to make life better for people.
They are all human beings with one short time on Earth.
58TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 58

Soon after her daughter’s death, Nelson joined Carlson Com-
panies full time, where she has devoted herself to empowering the
organization’s 150,000 employees to serve its customers in a highly
personalized  manner.  Twenty  years  later  she  remains  dedicated
to the vow she made to make life better for people. In 2006 she
was named one of “America’s Best Leaders” by US News & World
Report.
Virgin Mobile USA CEO Dan Schulman described how his sis-
ter’s death transformed his attitudes toward leadership. “Before my
sister died, I was focused on moving up in AT&T,” he said. “I was
upwardly oriented and insecure. Often I took credit that wasn’t
mine to claim.”
My sister’s death was the first time I had been dealt a giant blow. I loved
her immensely. When death happens so young and cuts a life short, a lot
of things you thought were important aren’t important at all. When she
died, I decided, “I am going to be who I am.” I wanted to spend more time
with my folks and my brother, rather than moving up the corporate ladder.
At that point I didn’t care if I got credit for anything and became
quick to credit everyone else. As team leader, I focused only on getting
the job done in the best way. As a result, our teams became much more
functional than they were before. All of a sudden, my career started to
shoot up.
Both Nelson and Schulman used the trauma of the death of
their loved ones to rethink what their lives and leadership were
about. With a newfound sense of mission, they transformed their
leadership into focusing on others.
My Life as a Series of Crucibles. In my case, I experienced a
series of crucibles that ultimately transformed my approach to lead-
ership. From my earliest days my father encouraged me to become
a leader, in part to make up for his perceived failures. Hard as I tried,
however, none of my peers wanted to follow me. When I wasn’t
chosen for high school leadership roles, I ran for elected office and
was disappointed not to win.
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”59
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 59

Discouraged, I went off to Georgia Tech so I could have a fresh
start where no one knew me. As mindfulness meditation expert Jon
Kabat Zinn has written, “Wherever you go, there you are.” I learned
the hard way that I couldn’t escape my past unless I changed myself
in the present. I ran for office in my college fraternity six times and
lost every time. Clearly, I had not learned why others did not want
to follow me.
At this point a group of seniors took me under their wing and
gave me some sound advice. “Bill, you have a lot of ability, but you
come across as more interested in getting ahead than you are in
helping other people. No wonder no one wants to follow your lead.”
Although devastated by this feedback, I took their advice to heart.
I talked to my peers about what I was doing wrong and how I could
change. Eventually, the changes took hold, and I was chosen for
more leadership positions than I could take on. Most rewarding of
all was being selected as fraternity president by the same people
who had rejected me earlier.
In my mid-twenties I experienced the most significant crucibles
of my life. An only child, I was extremely close to my mother, who
gave me unconditional love. When she died suddenly of cancer and
a heart attack, I went into a period of deep reflection about the pur-
pose of my life. Eighteen months later, as I was only three weeks
away from being married, my fiancée died suddenly from a malig-
nant brain tumor. Her death came as an incredible shock. Once
again, I felt all alone in the world. Had it not been for the power of
prayer and the support of my friends, I might not have recovered.
Not long after that, I had the blessing of meeting my future
wife, Penny. She was very empathetic about my experiences, and a
year later we were married. I can honestly say that she has been the
best thing that ever happened to me. In addition to being a great
wife and mother, Penny is an outstanding counselor to me.
Even so, I still wasn’t out of the woods. I saw myself on an unbro-
ken sprint to the top of a major corporation. By age thirty, I was pres-
ident of Litton Microwave, the pioneer and leader in the emerging
U.S. consumer microwave oven industry. For the next five years I led
60TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 60

our  team  in  creating  the  field  of  consumer  microwave  cooking.
Toward the end of that time, the board of directors of our parent
company, Litton Industries, visited our rapidly growing division. I
was proud to explain how we had grown at 55 percent per year and
had become the largest profit contributor in the corporation.
Sailing high, I was pulled aside after the meeting by the corpo-
rate CEO, who offered some stern advice. “Young man, you’re still
in the honeymoon phase here. You don’t have a clue what business
is all about. Wait until you have to turn around failing businesses.”
His advice really angered me. I thought he was the one who
didn’t have a clue about how to create growth businesses. Was I
ever wrong. A year later I left Litton and joined Honeywell, with
the opportunity to lead a global corporation. As I was asked to turn
around one business after another, I recognized that Litton’s CEO
had been absolutely right. During my fourth major turnaround, I
finally looked at myself in the mirror and admitted this was not how
I wanted to spend my life.
I was in the midst of a severe crucible but had been too busy to
recognize it. I finally faced the reality that my unhappiness at work
was harming my marriage, my relationship to our sons, and my close
friendships. Maybe my destiny was not to be CEO of Honeywell
after all, or maybe I would not enjoy the job if I got it.
At that point I talked with my wife, my best friend, and a group
of men I met with each week and asked them all for candid feedback.
They had seen what was happening and were pleased I was finally
facing it. I was so focused on becoming CEO that I had lost sight of
the purpose of my leadership—to benefit the lives of others. For all
my earlier work, I had not fully made the transition from “I” to “We.”
Three times I had turned down the opportunity to become
president and COO of Medtronic, the creator of the pacemaker,
because I did not believe the company suited my ambition to lead
a large company. Back then, it was only one-third the size of the
sector  I  was  leading  at  Honeywell.  Facing  up  to  my  need  for  a
renewed sense of purpose, I called Medtronic back to find out if the
position was still open.
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”61
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 61

Several months later, after conversations about the Medtronic
mission with founder Earl Bakken, I joined Medtronic as president.
My thirteen years there became the best professional experience of
my life. By embracing the Medtronic mission of restoring people to
full life and health, and discovering the purpose of my leadership in
serving patients and empowering 30,000 employees, I was finally on
the right side of the transformation from “I” to “We.”
Nelson Mandela: Seeking Reconciliation, not Retribution.
Have you ever felt unfairly treated? How about the time you missed
an important promotion, or someone less capable got a larger bonus
than you did or was recognized for contributions you made? The
next time you feel sorry for yourself, think of the example of Nelson
Mandela, who led protests against the unjust apartheid policies of
his South African government. Of all the leaders I have met, his
journey of transformation is the most dramatic.
In his younger years, Mandela organized boycotts and demon-
strations against the apartheid government that often erupted in vio-
lence.  In  1956  his  government  arrested  him  for  high  treason  in
causing violence. He endured a four-year-long trial and was even-
tually declared not guilty. Not satisfied, the government had him
arrested for political crimes. A magistrate sentenced him to five
years in prison without possibility of parole.
Mandela spent the next twenty-seven years of his life in prison,
doing hard labor in spite of his advancing age. As global pressure
mounted on his government and many global companies boycotted
his country, Mandela was finally released from prison in 1990 at the
age of seventy-one.
If ever a person had a right to be bitter toward his captors and
the injustice done to him, it was Mandela. How then could he find
it in his heart to honor the prison guards who looked after him and
to forgive the judge who had sentenced him many years before?
How was he able to negotiate with the leader of a minority govern-
ment that repeatedly ordered his people beaten and killed to keep
itself in power? When Mandela was elected president four years
62TRUE NORTH
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 62

later, how was he able to cast aside calls for revenge and instead
offer reconciliation to his oppressors?
To know the real answers to these questions, one would have to
walk in Mandela’s shoes or look into his soul. Here was a person who
rose above discrimination, injustice, and hatred. Through his years in
prison, Mandela realized that his greater purpose was to save his nation
from civil war and to reunite the people of his country. The day of
his release, he told the massive crowds who greeted his freedom:
I stand here before you not as a prophet but as a humble servant of you, the
people. Your tireless and heroic sacrifices have made it possible for me to be
here today. I therefore place the remaining years of my life in your hands.
During those long years in prison, Nelson Mandela realized that
his leadership was not about the “I” of getting people to follow him
but the “We” of reconciliation. He saw his role as bringing people
from diverse backgrounds together around a common vision for the
new  South  Africa,  centered  on  the  values  of  social  justice  and
opportunity for all.
What can we learn from Nelson Mandela?
•  He inspires people around the cause of restoring South Africa
for allits people.
•  He makes decisions based on who he is, not what has hap-
pened to him.
•  He credits his people for freeing him.
•  He is driven to make life better for all people.
His leadership transformation inspires us to abandon our image
as heroes of our own journey in order to lead others in a greater call-
ing. Not many of us can be liberators of an oppressed people, but all
of us can make a difference in the world around us.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Four, you may want
to complete the Chapter Three Exercise found in Appendix C.
TRANSFORMATION FROM “I” TO “WE”63
c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 63

c03.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 64

Part Two
Discover Your
Authentic Leadership
How do you develop as an authentic leader?
Discovering our authentic leadership requires us to test our-
selves, our values, and our beliefs through real-world experiences.
This is not an easy process as we are constantly buffeted by the
demands of the external world, the model of success that others
hold out for us, and our search to discover our truth.
Because there is no map or direct path between where you are
now and where you will go on your leadership journey, you need a
compass to keep you focused on your True North and get back on
track when you are pulled off by external forces or are at risk of
being derailed.
The compass is a dynamic tool that you can update and calibrate
after every experience to ensure that each step you take on your
leadership journey is consistent with how you want to lead your life.
Because your circumstances, opportunities, and the world around
you are always changing, you will never stop calibrating your
p02.qxp  1/17/07  8:14 PM  Page 65

compass. When each part of your compass is well developed, you
will be pointed toward your True North. The chapters that follow
address  the  five  major  areas  of  your  personal  development  as  a
leader: self-awareness, values and principles, motivations, support
team, and the integrated life. As you consider each of these areas,
ask yourself these fundamental questions:
•Self-Awareness:What is my story? What are my strengths and
developmental needs?
•Values:What are my most deeply held values? What princi-
ples guide my leadership?
•Motivations:What motivates me? How do I balance external
and internal motivations?
•Support Team:Who are the people I can count on to guide
and support me along the way?
•Integrated Life:How can I integrate all aspects of my life and
find fulfillment?
66TRUE NORTH
NW
NE
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
p02.qxp  1/17/07  8:14 PM  Page 66

67
4
KNOWING YOUR 
AUTHENTIC SELF
Know Thyself
—Inscribed at the temple wall at Delphi 
in Greece during the sixth century B.C.
The advice to know yourself is thousands of years old. But knowing
ourselves at the deepest level is not easy, as we are complex human
beings with many aspects to our character. We are constantly evolv-
ing, as we test ourselves in the world, are influenced by it, and adapt
to our environment—all in an attempt to find our unique place.
In their interviews, leaders said that gaining self-awareness
was central to becoming authentic leaders. For this reason it is at
NW
NE
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 67

the center of your compass. When you know yourself, you can
find the passion that motivates you and the purpose of your lead-
ership. Nancy Barry, CEO of Women’s World Banking and one
of “America’s Best Leaders,” tells young leaders to “take the time
to get to know yourself and find your passion. Look inside, to find
your power, your purpose. If you find and go with this flow, you
will make a difference in our world—and you will find joy in the
journey.”
FirstMark CEO Lynn Forester de Rothschild urges leaders to
remember Shakespeare’s admonition, “To thine own self be true.”
Being true to yourself is the most important thing. If you’re ambitious,
that’s great; if not, that’s also fine. Just be true to what you want. Not
everyone can be at the top of the class. If they try to be, they may
not get there. If they did get there, they might not be happy. Know
who you are, and you can achieve anything in life. You can overcome
almost any obstacles, unless you are the obstacle.
The task of discovering your authentic self becomes more com-
plicated as you are confronted by a myriad of options in the broader
world. These opportunities can provide new openings to develop
yourself, or they can be seductions that take you away from your
true self. At the same time, you will be confronted by people who
threaten you, do not like you, or reject you. To protect yourself from
harm, you may develop a false self by building protective layers and,
in so doing, become less authentic.
Your Emotional Intelligence
Self-awareness is the first element of emotional intelligence, or EQ,
that psychologist Daniel Goleman, author of Emotional Intelligence,
uses in describing the leader’s role. While intellectual intelligence,
or  IQ,  has  long  been  thought  of  as  an  essential  characteristic
for managers, EQ may be more important for authentic leaders. Too
many leaders believe that by being the smartest person in the room,
they can use their intellect to carry the day. As a result, they over-
68TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 68

power less forceful voices that may have the vital ideas, insights,
and answers they need to succeed.
As a leader, I am certainly not immune from this criticism. I
recall the advice from Medtronic’s general counsel not to be so
forceful in meetings because I was shutting down people who had
something to contribute. That was also keeping me from gaining
their support for the eventual conclusion.
Wells Fargo’s Dick Kovacevich argues that high IQ can actually
be an impediment to leadership. “Above the 99th percentile of
intelligence,  there  is  an  inverse  correlation  between  leadership
and intelligence,” he says.
Leaders  with  an  exceptionally  high  IQ  get  too  intellectually
involved and have trouble being tolerant of others. You have to have
a certain level of intelligence at the top; maybe it is the 90th or 95th
percentile, but it isn’t the 99th. Above that level, you need leader-
ship skill, interpersonal skills, and teamwork more than you need a
few  extra  points  of  IQ.  Dirk  Jager,  the  former  CEO  of  Procter  &
Gamble, is an example of a leader failing to impose his intellect on
others. Jager was a brilliant strategist who had excellent ideas about
the strategic and cultural changes needed at P&G, but his style was
so abrasive he threatened the essence of P&G’s culture. As a result,
his management team rebelled, and the board asked him to step
down in less than two years, as A.G. Lafley, a longtime P&G exec-
utive, took his place. Using a combination of wisdom, humility,
and personal engagement with employees, Lafley is transforming
P&G into one of the great success stories of the twenty-first cen-
tury. As one of the most successful business leaders of our era, in
2006 he was named “CEO of the Year” by Chief Executivemagazine
and one of “America’s Best Leaders” byUS News & World Report.
Why Knowing Yourself Is So Important
When the seventy-five members of the Stanford Graduate School
of Business Advisory Council were asked to recommend the
most  important  capability  for  leaders  to  develop,  their
answer was nearly unanimous: self-awareness.
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF69
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 69

Big Brothers Big Sisters CEO Judy Vredenburgh confirmed its
importance. “Having self-awareness early in life is very important.
You need to understand the cultures you thrive in, the roles you are
best in, your natural strengths, and your natural interests. Then put
yourself in a place where you can shine.” Other leaders stressed sev-
eral reasons why self-awareness is so important:
Finding the Right Role. Whether you’re in a start-up, a turn-
around situation, or a growth opportunity, the better you know
yourself, the more likely you are to choose the right role for your-
self. Former Medco CEO Per Lofberg is an organization builder who
has thrived in growth enterprises. He joined Medco, a pharmacy-
benefit-management company, early in its development and built it
to $30 billion in revenue and 15,000 employees. He commented, “I
could never be like ‘Chainsaw Al’ Dunlap (former CEO of Sun-
beam) in cutting everything in sight. Likewise, someone like Dun-
lap would be terrible in building businesses.”
Increasing Self-Confidence. When leaders know themselves
well, they become comfortable in their own skin. Adobe CEO
Bruce Chizen once felt insecure about working in the technol-
ogy industry because he was not an engineer. When he recognized
his strong business and product-marketing skills and his ability
to learn about engineering, a switch flipped in Chizen’s mind.
After that, he became increasingly self-confident: “I understood
myself well enough to know what I didn’t know, but also knew
enough to feel comfortable. That awareness helped me find real
self-confidence.”
Being Consistent. By being aware of their actions and inten-
tions, leaders act consistently in different situations and gain the
trust of others. Former American Airlines CEO Don Carty rea-
soned, “You cannot motivate people unless you talk and walk in the
same way. How can you expect an employee to be pleasant with a
customer if you’re not pleasant with the employee?”
70TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 70

Connecting with Others. Most leaders see the process of gaining
self-awareness as crucial to their ability to build strong relationships.
Debra Dunn, former senior vice president at HP, stresses, “If someone
is self-aware, you can have a more authentic interaction with them.”
Those who are comfortable with themselves tend to be more open
and transparent—which includes sharing their vulnerabilities.
Complementary Skills. Leaders who know their strengths and
weaknesses can fill their skill gaps with colleagues that complement
them. Ned Barnholt, Agilent’s former CEO, said, “You understand
your strengths and shortcomings and try to build a strong team
around you. I didn’t grow up as an accountant so I surround myself
with excellent financial people. That’s a lot better than trying to be
somebody you’re not.”
Becoming Self-Aware
Without self-awareness, it is easy to get caught up in chasing exter-
nal symbols of success rather than becoming the person you want to
be. It is difficult to regulate your emotions, control your fears, and
avoid  impulsive  outbursts  when  you  feel  threatened  or  rejected.
Without being aware of your vulnerabilities, fears, and longings, it is
hard to empathize with others who are experiencing similar feelings.
Many leaders, especially those early in their careers, are trying
so hard to establish themselves in this world that they leave little
time for self-exploration. Nor do they focus on becoming more self-
aware. As they age, they may find something is missing in their lives
or realize something is holding them back from being the person
they want to be. They may encounter a life-changing event, as Dan
Schulman did in his sister’s death, that causes them to reflect deeply
on what they want out of their lives.
For other leaders, memories of childhood are so painful that they
shut themselves off from their feelings. Anxious to bury these mem-
ories altogether, they drive extremely hard to achieve success
in  the  tangible  ways  that  are  recognized  in  the  external
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF71
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 71

world—money, fame, power, status, or a rising stock price. Often
their drive enables them to be successful, at least for a while, but it
may leave them highly vulnerable to being derailed, as their lack of
self-awareness can lead to major mistakes and errors in judgment.
Dave  Pottruck:  Journey  to  Self-Awareness.  Of  all  the
leaders interviewed,  David  Pottruck,  former  CEO  of  Charles
Schwab, had one of the most courageous journeys to discovering
his authentic self. Pottruck grew up in modest circumstances: his
father was a Grumman Aircraft machinist, and his mother was a
nurse. He was an all-league high school football player who was
offered a full scholarship to play linebacker at the University of
Pennsylvania. He noted, “I tried to inspire the team to rise to the
occasion and do their best on game day. I wound up MVP of my
college team.”
Disappointed not to be recruited for professional football, he
went to Wharton for his MBA, then joined Citigroup, and later
went to Charles Schwab as head of marketing, moving from New
York to San Francisco. He was an extremely hard worker, and he
could  not  understand  why  his  new  colleagues  resented  his  long
hours  and  aggressiveness  in  pushing  for  results.  “I  thought  my
accomplishments would speak for themselves,” he recalled.
It never occurred to me that my level of energy would intimidate and
offend other people, because in my mind I was trying to help the company.
My peers resented the fact that I worked fourteen hours a day and they
only wanted to work nine, but Chuck Schwab appreciated my level of
intensity.
One of the most difficult things in becoming self-aware is see-
ing ourselves as others see us. Although it can be difficult to hear,
leaders need accurate feedback to identify their blind spots. Pot-
truck was shocked when his boss gave him a low rating on trust-
worthiness and told him, “Dave, your colleagues do not trust you.”
As he recalled, “That feedback was like a dagger to my heart.”
72TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 72

I was in denial, as I didn’t see myself as others saw me. I became a light-
ning rod for friction, but I had no idea how self-serving I looked to other
people. But somewhere in my inner core the feedback resonated as true.
At first I thought about finding another job. Chuck Schwab heard rumors
I was looking around and asked me to stay and work out my differences
with the rest of his team. Finally, I faced the fact that I could not succeed
the way I was and had to change.
Pottruck found that changing himself was a very hard process.
“The more stress you are under, the more you revert to your old
patterns.”
Much like Alcoholics Anonymous, I went back to my colleagues and said,
“I’m Dave Pottruck, and I have some broken leadership skills. I’m going
to try to be a different person. I need your help, and ask you to be open to
the possibility that I can change.”
Pottruck worked with a coach and developed a cadre of advis-
ers to use as a sounding board. His coach taught him about authen-
ticity and the power of storytelling. In his speeches, Dave began
telling stories that revealed his life, fears, ambitions, and failures and
found that people were inspired.
After his second divorce, Pottruck realized he still had large
blind spots. “When my first marriage ended, I was convinced that it
was all her fault. After my second marriage fell apart, I thought I
had a wife-selection problem.” Then he worked with a counselor
who told him, “I have good news and bad news. The good news is
you do not have a wife-selection problem; the bad news is you have
a husband-behavior problem.”
After another long period of denial, Pottruck made a determined
effort to change. “I was like a guy who has had three heart attacks
and finally realizes he has to quit smoking and lose some weight.”
Denial is the biggest challenge we face. The only way to overcome it
is to be honest with yourself and not make up excuses. This has
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF73
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 73

helped me accept criticism, listen to it, and take it seriously, as painful
as it may be.
These days Pottruck is happily remarried and listens carefully
when his wife, Emily, offers constructive feedback. He acknowl-
edges that he falls back on his old habits at times, particularly dur-
ing moments of high stress, but he has developed ways of coping
with it. “My wife’s advice makes me a better person and a better
husband,” he noted.
We all want to be stroked, admired, and complimented, but we have to be
willing to listen to feedback we don’t want to hear. That requires a strong
sense of yourself and a solid foundation. I have had enough success in life
to have that foundation of self-respect, so I can take the criticism and not
deny it. I have finally learned to tolerate my failures and disappointments
and not beat myself up.
We must get outside our egos and listen to feedback we don’t
want  to  hear.  Young  people  often  have  not  developed  the  self-
esteem  to  see  their  mistakes  and  take  accountability  for  them.
When you can do that and be open to new ways of doing things,
the change you can accomplish is almost unlimited. The discovery
process never ends.
Pottruck’s hard work in becoming self-aware paid off. He won
the support of his colleagues, and his dynamic leadership produced
outstanding results for the firm. As a result, Schwab promoted him
to president in 1992. Six years later he was named co-CEO along
with  Schwab.  During  his  fourteen  years  at  or  near  the  helm  of
Schwab, Pottruck substantially broadened Schwab’s business base,
as it became one of the most admired companies in America and
was named to Fortune’s “100 Best Places to Work.”
In 2003 Pottruck was named sole CEO, with Schwab continu-
ing as board chair. These were difficult times for the firm, as the bro-
kerage  business  turned  down  after  the  stock  market  decline  of
2001–02. Pottruck and his colleagues, still in a growth mode, did
74TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 74

not understand the depth of permanent change occurring in their
markets, thinking the business was just in a down cycle. “I didn’t see
the sea change,” he said.
I hated firing people, so I did the minimum I had to do to make the com-
pany right. I was so connected to the people that I didn’t have the resolve
to steel myself emotionally to get rid of people that I had affection for. Now
I realize you have to cut constantly.
Only fourteen months after his appointment as sole CEO, Pot-
truck was forced to resign by the board as Schwab returned as CEO.
His first reaction was one of shock and disbelief. The day after the
public announcement, Pottruck attended an Intel board meeting,
where Andy Grove, Intel’s longtime leader, pulled him aside and
offered some sage advice, “When you got promoted to CEO, did
that  make  you  a  better  man?  Well,  then,  do  you  think  because
you’re no longer CEO of Schwab, you’re not a better man? Hold
your head high. You’re as good as you were last week.”
Along with Grove’s timely counsel, letters and e-mails poured
in with messages of gratitude for his leadership and friendship.
These messages helped snap Pottruck out of his depression, as his
wife helped him confront his new reality. These days Pottruck is
devoting his time to helping others develop their leadership and
self-awareness by teaching at the Wharton School. He recently
became  CEO  of  start-up  Eos  Airlines  when  the  former  CEO
floundered.
“All of us have an innate ability to become better,” Pottruck
concluded.
If I can help people believe they can improve, I can motivate them to make
this journey of discovery, of honest self-appraisal, and of hard work toward
fundamental change. None of us is born perfect. We all have things that
we do wrong and get in our way. You have a choice of letting them get in
your way your whole life, or fixing them. Why wouldn’t you want to do
that? It’s illogical to me.
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF75
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 75

Dave Pottruck readily acknowledges his imperfections and still
tries to improve his leadership abilities. Perfection is not the goal of
authentic leadership. Rather, it is to be true to who you are while
continuing to develop yourself into a more effective leader. That
requires the kind of deep introspection, feedback, and support illus-
trated by Pottruck’s story.
Peeling Back the Onion
Knowing yourself can be compared to peeling back the layers of
an onion as you search for your true self. The outer layers of the
onion are the visible ways you present yourself to the world—how
you look, your facial expressions, your body language, your attire,
and the way you express yourself. Often these layers are rough and
hardened in order to protect you from the assaults of the world
around you.
Understanding your outer layers is a necessary first step to going
deeper into what lies beneath, because they provide the access to
your  inner  core.  Beneath  those  outer  layers  resides  your  under-
standing of your strengths and weaknesses and what you need and
desire from the world around you. Once I asked a teenage mentee
of mine, who was getting ready to go out with his friends, why he
spent so much time in front of the mirror. His reply was telling: “I
need to look good on the outside, because I feel so much pain on
the inside.”
Peeling the onion further, you gain an understanding of your
values and the ways in which experiences often put you in conflict
with your values. Digging still deeper, you learn what is driving
and motivating you. Underneath these layers of your proverbial
onion lies your understanding of your life story and of the way
in which your experiences build your story and create a mosaic of
your life. As you approach the deepest layers surrounding your
inner core, you find your blind spots and your vulnerabilities. At
the core of your being is what you believe and how you envision
your place on earth.
76TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 76

Authentic
Self
Values
Strengths,
Weaknesses
Body
Language
Attire
Motivations
Shadow
Sides
Understanding
Life Story
Vulnerabilities
Blind
Spots
Needs
Desires
Appearance
Leadership
Style
As you explore who you are, you peel back one layer only to dis-
cover a deeper and often more interesting layer underneath it. As
you get nearer to your core, you find that the inner layers feel quite
tender and vulnerable because they have not been exposed to the
assaults of the outside world. When you do not feel in a safe place,
you  cover  your  core  self  to  protect  it  from  exposure  and  harm,
and you develop a false self. At the same time you are continually
growing, adding new layers of complexity, as you develop ways of
interfacing effectively with the world while preserving the integrity
of your core self.
Confronting Your Blind Spots
There are several ways you can peel back your onion and uncover
your blind spots. One of the best means of learning more about your-
self is getting feedback from others. Stanford’s Joel Peterson calls feed-
back “the breakfast of champions.” Verizon’s Judy Haberkorn
says, “They called me the feedback queen. The best thing
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
Figure 4.1  Peeling Back the Onion
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF77
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 77

you can get in this world is honest feedback from someone who
cares about your success and well-being. Some are of us more self-
aware than others, but few of us see the world as it sees us.”
Kroger CEO Dave Dillon discovered the value of feedback dur-
ing college, after he lost an important election in his fraternity. His
first reaction was to get defensive and think, “I’m better than that
guy. Why didn’t they choose me?” After considerable introspection,
he realized that “My point of view wasn’t the relevant one. The
important one was what others thought.” Through feedback, he
learned he had a number of traits that needed improvement. As a
result, he went on to become president of the student body and his
fraternity, the first steps in a life of successful leadership. Dillon says,
“Feedback helps you take the blinders off, face reality, and see your-
self as you really are.”
Dillon continues to ask his colleagues at Kroger for feedback,
which sometimes hits so close to home he feels defensive. “When I
get defensive, I go back to the individual and apologize. I tell him,
‘My reaction was against me, not you. My defensiveness is a mech-
anism to help me cope with unpleasant personal news. I assure you
I hold you in higher regard because you shared that with me.’ ”
Reflection and Introspection
Next in the process of gaining self-awareness is taking time for per-
sonal reflection or introspection. Reflecting on your life story and
your experiences can help you understand them at a deeper level—
and so you can reframe your life story in a more coherent way as
your future direction becomes congruent with the knowledge of
who you are and the kind of person you want to become.
Former  LucasArts  CEO  Randy  Komisar  went  through  a
period of deep reflection to figure out what he wanted out of life.
At LucasArts he clashed frequently with founder George Lucas.
Frustrated  by  his  lack  of  independence,  he  became  CEO  of  a
rival, Crystal Dynamics. It turned out to be the worst decision he
ever made.
78TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 78

Komisar soon realized the business did not stir his passions. “I
couldn’t find my reason for being there. The business floundered
and ultimately succeeded, but I failed. First, I had to admit my mis-
takes. Then I had to face tough issues like what was I going to do
with my life? I could have made Crystal work, but at what cost? I
hadn’t asked myself that question before.”
He resigned after a year and began a meditation practice to gain
clarity, with a Buddhist monk as his teacher. “That was a point in
my life where it was time to just be. My Buddhist practice became
a formative part of the next phase of my life.”
After  reflection,  Komisar  realized  there  was  a  war  going  on
inside him that traced back to the two most influential people in his
life: his father and grandmother. His father was a contract salesman
for countless companies who was fiercely independent. He craved
material success and gambled constantly. “When he lost money, we
became very nervous that we would not be able to pay our college
tuition. I worried that I would not graduate.” The elder Komisar
encouraged his son to attain financial success: “Insecurity about
money was built into me as a child.”
Komisar was very close to his grandmother, who died when he
was ten. “We bonded in a way that I never bonded with anyone
else,” he said. “Her death devastated me, as she had an incredible
influence on my life. She was generous, interested in people, and
had great character. She loved people and they loved her.”
Komisar recognized he needed to release himself from his image
of success and embrace his own qualities.
I was on a fast track, but it wasn’t my track. There was a war inside me
between the need to be fulfilled versus the desire to be successful in my
father’s eyes and of society. It was time to let go of the notion I was climb-
ing the ladder of success and accept the fact that I was on a long and wind-
ing journey.
When leaders accept who they are and release the need to
be on someone else’s fast track, they can be comfortable in
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF79
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 79

their own skin. “The ability to face reality and acknowledge that
you can fail and still feel good about yourself is an important turn-
ing point in your self-awareness,” said Komisar.
He joined the venture capital firm of Kleiner Perkins, helping
leaders of the firm’s portfolio companies develop themselves, their
strategies, and their self-awareness. “Now I get to spend all my time
on the part of the CEO’s role that energizes me—strategizing, build-
ing relationships, making deals, and mentoring teams,” he concluded.
Tad Piper: Being Vulnerable Under Pressure. One fear all of
us have to confront is whether others will accept us if we show our
vulnerability. We fear being rejected if we admit our mistakes. Will
others take advantage of our weaknesses? Will they think less of us?
As hard as we try to deny them, these questions continually nag
when we are feeling most vulnerable.
Tad  Piper,  Piper  Jaffray’s  former  chairman  and  CEO,  went
through a difficult ordeal when his firm faced a financial and legal
crisis because of the actions of a bond trader who lost money for
some of the firm’s major clients. After the bond fund increased by a
cumulative 90 percent in five years, the fund manager took increas-
ing risks with complex new derivative instruments to sustain its
unusually high returns. When interest rates turned down in 1994,
the fund declined by 25 percent.
Investors cried foul, and their lawyers went on the attack. Suit
after suit was filed, charging Piper Jaffray with failing to inform
clients of the fund’s risks and with falsely designating the fund as
“conservative.” Piper tried working with the clients to resolve the
issues, but doing so became increasingly difficult. “When you get
into problems,” he pointed out, “you find out quickly how strong
your relationships are, which people are real and which aren’t, and
who will abandon relationships for money. A lot of very sophisti-
cated people got dumb and naive very quickly. Nevertheless, we
were responsible for the problem.”
By the spring of 1994, Piper knew he had a momentous prob-
lem on his hands. “The future of our entire company was in jeop-
80TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 80

ardy,” he recalled. “We had to deal with it as best we could.” Asked
if he thought about bailing out, Piper said bluntly: “Absolutely. The
problems were overwhelming, and the temptation to walk away was
overpowering. But I knew I couldn’t do that. It was my problem to
resolve, with God’s help. Ultimately, we could have gone out of
business, but I was going to give it my best shot.”
Piper felt that his leadership of the company during this period
had never been stronger. The experience helped him solve business
problems by developing inner strength. He admitted his uncertain-
ties openly, even at their height, and was willing to be vulnerable.
“One of the most important things we did was to bring together our
leaders and their spouses from our branch offices around the coun-
try,” he explained.
My wife and I decided to be completely honest with them and totally vul-
nerable. We showed them we were real people, feeling just like they were.
We stood in front of them and told them we were scared. I also talked
about my chemical dependency and about my faith. That was the most
powerful thing we have ever done. People never forgot that day because
we showed our vulnerability. All of a sudden everybody on our team
trusted us, even the skeptics.
Piper said he never would have opened up like that had he not
found himself in the middle of a crisis. “As a result, I’ve learned the
power of being vulnerable. Most leaders are afraid to be vulnerable.
They think, ‘I’m supposed to be strong and have all the answers.’ ”
Piper eventually recognized that he had to settle the lawsuits to
get the issue resolved. With the issue behind him, he and his col-
leagues were able to focus all their energies on building the business
once again.
What is remarkable about Piper’s story is his openness in strug-
gling to resolve the issues and his willingness to share his vulnera-
bilities  with  his  teammates.  Many  leaders  would  simply  hunker
down and try to fix the problems without reaching out for
help. Piper’s approach takes courage but is ultimately much
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF81
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 81

more successful because it is so empowering to teammates who gen-
uinely want to help the organization succeed. Above all, leadership
is a human undertaking. When leaders reveal their vulnerabilities,
they develop trusting human connections with others that moti-
vate and empower those they engage.
Accepting Yourself
Self-awareness is only half of the challenge. You still have to accept
yourself.  But  with  self-awareness,  accepting  your  authentic  self
becomes much easier. You see yourself clearly and accurately, and
you know what you truly believe.
The key to self-acceptance is to love yourself unconditionally. It
is easy to love our strengths and bask in our successes. Even Narcissus
could do that. To love ourselves unconditionally, we have to learn to
accept ourselves as we are, with all our warts and our flaws, rather
than wish we were different. Reatha Clark King captured this feeling
when she said, “I feel good in my skin. I get along well with myself
and have learned to accept myself race-wise and gender-wise.”
Loving yourself unconditionally requires self-compassion. In
“The Poetry of Self-Compassion,” poet David Whyte talks about
dealing with your weaknesses and shadow sides so that you can
accept the things you like least about yourself. That requires digging
into experiences you have hidden for years and finding the inno-
cent child inside you waiting to reemerge. Whyte also addresses this
challenge in his poem, “The Well of Grief.”
82TRUE NORTH
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 82
Text rights not available.

Whyte says you cannot wall yourself off from the pain of past
experiences. Like David Pottruck and Tad Piper, you have to con-
front them directly, accept yourself unconditionally, and learn to
love your weaknesses as much as you revel in your strengths. That
level of self-compassion enables you to get to the source of your
True North and to accept yourself as you are.
Once armed with a high level of self-awareness and self-acceptance,
it is much easier to regulate yourself and your feelings. Your anger
and emotional outbursts usually result when someone penetrates to
the  core  of  what  you  do  not  like  about  yourself  or  still  cannot
accept. By accepting yourself just as you are, you are no longer vul-
nerable to these hurts and are prepared to interact authentically
with others who come into your life—your family, friends, cowork-
ers, even complete strangers. Free of having to pretend to be some-
one  you  are  not,  you  can  focus  on  pursuing  your  passions  and
fulfilling your dreams.
With the center of your compass solidly grounded in self-awareness
and supported by self-acceptance, you are ready to focus on your
values and principles.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Five, you may want
to complete the Chapter Four Exercise found in Appendix C.
KNOWING YOUR AUTHENTIC SELF83
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Moti
Self
Awareness
Support
Self-
Awareness
c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 83

c04.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 84

85
5
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES
AND PRINCIPLES
Leaders with principles are less likely to get
bullied or pushed around because they
can draw clear lines in the sand. . . .
The softest pillow is a clear conscience.
—Narayana Murthy, founder and former CEO, Infosys
In gaining a clear awareness of who you are, you must understand
your values and the principles that guide your leadership. Several
leaders referred to their values as their moral compass. Novartis’s Dan
NW
NE
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 85

Vasella observed, “Most people have some kind of moral compass
that tells them in which direction to go.” Former Johnson & John-
son chairman and CEO Jim Burke, who made the courageous deci-
sion to recall Tylenol in 1982, said, “Without a moral center, you
will swim in chaos.”
Staying centered on your values is not easy. You can easily drift
off course as the temptations and pressures of the outside world pull
you away from your moral center. But if you are centered through
a high level of self-awareness, your compass can help you get back
on track.
Values, Leadership Principles,
and Ethical Boundaries
The values that form the basis for your True North are derived from
your  beliefs  and  convictions.  In  defining  your  values,  you  must
decide what is most important in your life. Is it maintaining your
integrity, making a difference, helping other people, or devoting
yourself to your family? There is no one right set of values. Only you
can decide the question of your values. When you do, you will be
better positioned to align with people and organizations that share
similar values.
When you have a clear understanding of your values and their
relative importance, you can establish the principles by which you
intend to lead. Leadership principles are values translated into action.
They are like navigational instruments sailors use to get their bear-
ings at sea, as they fix the direction of their travel with respect to
the north. Principles enable leaders to prioritize their values and
demonstrate which ones trump others.
After  defining  your  leadership  principles,  you  need  a  clear
understanding of your ethical boundaries. These are the limits you
place on your actions, based on your values and your standards.
Where do you draw the line between the actions that are accept-
able and those that are not? Exhibit 5.1 sketches the relationship.
86TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 86

Perhaps you have engaged in exercises in which you list your
values and force-rank them in order from the most important to the
least. While these exercises are helpful in clarifying what is impor-
tant,  you  do  not  know  what  your  true  values  are  until  they  are
tested under pressure. It is relatively easy to list your values and to
live by them when things are going well.
It is under pressure—when your success, your career, or your life
hangs in the balance—that you must decide what your values are.
When you are forced to make trade-offs between your values under
difficult circumstances, you learn what is most important in your life
and what you are prepared to sacrifice for. Those who develop a
clear sense of their values beforethey get into a crisis are better pre-
pared to keep their bearings and navigate through difficult decisions
and dilemmas when the pressure mounts.
Sara Lee CEO Brenda Barnes said, “I attribute my success to
values that were instilled in me in my upbringing, things like hon-
esty, integrity, and treating people with respect. You can’t fake your
values. You have to live by them. You are who you are.”
David Gergen: Discovering His True North. David Gergen
wanted to lead a life that was consistent with the values he learned
from his family and the Durham community where he grew up. He
became the first person to serve as White House adviser to
Exhibit 5.1  Defining Your Values,
Principles, and Ethical Boundaries
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES87
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
Values:
Leadership Principles:
Ethical Boundaries:
The relative importance of the things that matter in
your life.
A set of standards used in leading others, derived from
your values. Principles are values translated into action. 
The limits placed on your actions, based on your
standards of ethical behavior.  
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 87

four presidents of the United States: Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford,
Ronald Reagan, and Bill Clinton. Gergen served in the Nixon
White House during the aftermath of the 1972 break-in at the
Watergate headquarters of the Democratic National Commit-
tee. That experience convinced him to follow a basic leadership
principle—“act transparently”—that has helped him stay true to
his values.
Gergen was twenty-eight when he was hired as a White House
speechwriter during Nixon’s first term. He had a ringside seat for
history as it was being made. “When I first arrived, the power, glam-
our, and status went to my head,” he said. He would later come to
realize how naive and unprepared he was for the events of the next
few years.
His ambition helped him become a rising star in the Nixon
administration. He recalled, “I was grasping for the brass ring and
was  as  ambitious  as  everybody  else,  probably  more  so.”  After
Nixon’s 1972 reelection, Gergen was named head of the presi-
dent’s  speechwriting  and  research  team,  with  responsibility  for
supervising fifty people. “It was tempting to fall into the trap of
thinking I was important, instead of recognizing that people think
you’re important only because of where you’re standing. I had some
of the arrogance that other people in that administration had,” he
confessed.
When stories about the Watergate cover-up began to emerge
in early 1973, Gergen did not believe the allegations were true.
“We were continuously reassured that neither Nixon nor anyone
high up in the White House staff had done anything wrong,” he
explained. “Nixon told us that directly, and Haldeman and others
confirmed it in the most adamant terms.” As public focus on Water-
gate intensified throughout 1973 and 1974, an increasing number
of staff members resigned, including some of his own team, but
Gergen did not feel he could leave. “My resignation would have
made  a  public  statement  about  my  lack  of  belief  in  President
Nixon’s integrity. So I stayed and kept hoping against hope he was
innocent.”
88TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 88

Gergen learned of Nixon’s guilt only two days before the news
broke in August 1974. Even then, he did not feel he could leave,
lest he be viewed as “a rat leaving the sinking ship,” especially when
President Nixon asked him to write his resignation letter. As he
watched Nixon leave the White House for the last time in his heli-
copter, Gergen thought his own career in public life was over. He
recalled the infamous 1919 Chicago Black Sox World Series team,
whose players were accused of cheating and banned from baseball
for life. “I thought I’d never play again,” he said.
Watergate was an epiphany for me. It shattered my notion that, because
you are in a position of power and glamour, you can rise above being chal-
lenged. You can’t.
Almost immediately, Gergen’s phone stopped ringing. “Suddenly,
you’re not as glamorous as you were. You realize just how fast it all
comes and goes.” During the lonely and depressing days that fol-
lowed, Gergen was most impressed by the people who stood by
him—primarily  his  old  friends  from  Durham  and  his  college
classmates.
When you’re in trouble and all your defenses get stripped away, you real-
ize what matters and who matters. That’s when you need to get back to
your roots and to your values.
The  people  who  were  innocent  have  come  back  to  outstanding
careers. Jon Huntsman, the founder and chairman of Huntsman Corpo-
ration, was one who did that. Hank Paulson is another person who came
through it and had an extraordinary career as CEO of Goldman Sachs
and now as Secretary of the Treasury.
“Since that searing experience with Watergate,” Gergen con-
cluded, “I have always favored transparency.”
I have frequently disagreed with those I worked for, because the Water-
gate lessons were so vivid in my mind. They remind you that you have
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES89
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 89

to stay true to your values. Nixon did not have a moral compass, and
everything went off track.
David  Gergen’s  Watergate  experience  was  formative  in  his
development as an authentic leader. He recognized he had been
seduced by the glamour and prestige of being at the center of the
world’s  power  and  needed  to  return  to  his  authentic  roots  and
the people who were there for him when his world was collapsing.
This early experience improved his ability to advise Presidents Ford,
Reagan, and Clinton and to become a wise teacher of future lead-
ers as director of Harvard’s Center for Public Leadership.
Keith Krach: When Values Conflict. You may not know for
certain what your values are until you find yourself under the pres-
sure of having your values in conflict, or you find the values of the
people with whom you work differ from your own.
That was the situation former Ariba CEO Keith Krach faced in
his  early  thirties  following  a  successful  experience  at  General
Motors  (GM),  where  he  was  the  youngest  vice  president  ever.
Krach left GM to become COO of a Silicon Valley start-up named
Qronos Technology with the promise of becoming CEO within a
year. “My career was like running the hundred-yard dash and get-
ting smacked in the face with a two-by-four,” he said.
The company didn’t have the same values I had. The CEO used to say,
“Let’s hide this from the board.” After a few months, it was crystal clear
to me I had made a mistake. With its values, the company was never going
to survive. Although I had never resigned from anything in my life, I real-
ized that if I stayed there much longer, I wouldn’t be able to look myself in
the mirror.
Krach prided himself on being loyal and having integrity, so
these two core values were in conflict inside him. Although the sit-
uation was difficult, he did not want to give up, but he did not feel
that he was being true to himself. His best friend told him, “You
90TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 90

don’t look good. If you have your attitude and enthusiasm, you’re
an  A-plus  performer.  But  you’ve  lost  it.  You’re  like  a  D-minus.
There is no in-between for you. You should quit.”
The  moment  of  reckoning  came  when  his  wife  was  giving
birth to their first child. Krach was at her side during labor, yet
the CEO kept calling, demanding that he come to work. “We
have a big partner meeting with IBM,” the CEO told him. Krach
responded, “That’s anatomically impossible. I’m going to see my
son born.” After a few minutes, Krach’s values clicked in, and he
reached clarity in his mind. He called his boss back and said sim-
ply, “I quit.”
That was a big moment in my life. I immediately felt a sense of relief. I
learned more at Qronos than in any year in my life about what’s impor-
tant in terms of values, trust, and integrity. It was like a process of tem-
pering steel that made me much more resolved about my values.
Jon Huntsman: Testing Values Under Pressure. In preparing
for a day when your values conflict with those of your organization
and with each other, you need to decide what you want to stand for
in your life. How will your obituary read? What do you want people
to say at your funeral?
The life of Jon Huntsman, founder and chairman of Huntsman
Corporation, a $13 billion chemical company, offers an interesting
example of the way one person answered these questions. To the
outside observer, Huntsman seems to lead an idyllic life, one marked
by  integrity,  clarity  of  values,  a  large  and  successful  family,  and
material success. Yet Huntsman has been tested at least three major
times in the most severe ways. Each time he was forced to look deep
inside himself to determine what he stood for.
Huntsman has strong views about his values and the impor-
tance of values in the lives of others. When he asserts, “There is no
such thing as a moral agnostic,” Huntsman’s clarity forces you
to reflect on your own values.
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES91
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 91

Each of us possesses a moral GPS, a compass or conscience programmed
by parents, teachers, coaches, grandparents, clergy, friends, and peers.
The compass is an integral part of our being. It continues to differentiate
between proper and improper behavior until the day we die.
Huntsman, who was born in a humble family in rural Idaho,
says his values and leadership are inextricably linked to his family
roots. Although he was close to his mother, he never developed a
close relationship with his father, who was a stern disciplinarian.
“My mother was a sweet, loving person who never said a negative
word about anyone. Because of her, my heart has always been soft.”
He observed, “I was taught to play by the rules: be tough, be com-
petitive, but do it fairly.”
The principles we learned as children were simple and fair. With moral
compasses programmed in the sandboxes of long ago, we can navigate
career courses with values that guarantee successful lives, a path that is
good for one’s mental and moral well-being, and the opportunity for long-
term material success.
Huntsman’s leadership abilities were evident from a young age.
He garnered his first leadership opportunity when he was elected
president of his sixth-grade class—and the seventh-grade class, the
eighth-grade class, and the ninth-grade class. Then he moved to
Palo Alto High School and became president of the eleventh-grade
class.
At the University of Pennsylvania Huntsman was elected pres-
ident of the senior class and his fraternity and was selected as the
outstanding undergraduate by the fraternity’s international organi-
zation. He had a mission for each of his leadership roles and worked
to get all the people associated with him to buy into that mission.
When he was just out of college, his mother developed breast
cancer and died in her fifties. “She suffered so much that it broke
my heart,” he said. Nor was her suffering the family’s only brush
with cancer. His father died of prostate cancer, and his stepmother
92TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 92

died from ovarian cancer. Like a dark cloud hanging over the fam-
ily, cancer struck Huntsman himself twice, but he overcame it.
Emerging from the sadness he felt over his mother’s struggle and
death, he was determined someday to create a cancer research insti-
tute.  His  dream  came  true  decades  later  when  he  and  his  wife,
Karen,  founded  the  Huntsman  Cancer  Institute  in  1995.  As  of
2007 the Huntsmans have donated and raised over $350 million to
make it one of the most respected cancer institutes in the world.
Huntsman’s own experience with cancer convinced him that the
best  therapy  was  knowing  how  much  others  cared  about  him.
Behind his desk, he has a sign that reads, “The greatest exercise for
the human heart is to reach down and lift another up.” “That,” he
says, “is exactly what life is all about.”
Like David Gergen’s, Jon Huntsman’s moral compass also was
tested when he went to work for the Nixon administration in 1972,
shortly before the Watergate incident. After founding his own com-
pany, he was hired by Elliot Richardson, secretary of Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare (HEW), as associate administrator of social
services. His success in installing a management by objectives pro-
gram that saved $100 million in its first six months brought him to
the attention of the White House. Shortly thereafter, he was hired
by Bob Haldeman, President Nixon’s powerful chief of staff. He
found the experience of taking marching orders from Haldeman
“very mixed.”
I had been CEO of a company and then was running a big division at
HEW. I wasn’t geared to take orders, irrespective of whether they were
ethically or morally right. We had a few clashes, as plenty of things that
Haldeman wanted to do were questionable. An amoral atmosphere per-
meated the White House.
One day Haldeman asked Huntsman to help him entrap a Cal-
ifornia congressman who had been opposing a White House initia-
tive. The congressman partially owned a plant that reportedly
employed undocumented workers, and Haldeman wanted
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES93
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 93

to gather information that could be used to embarrass him. Hunts-
man’s task was to place some Latino employees from his Huntsman
facility on an undercover operation. He said, “I was under the gun
from Haldeman to call my plant manager.”
There are times when we react too quickly and fail to realize immediately
what is right and wrong. This was one of those times when I didn’t think
it through. I knew instinctively it was wrong, but it took a few minutes for
the notion to percolate. After fifteen minutes, my inner moral compass
made itself noticed and enabled me to recognize this wasn’t the right thing
to do. Values that had accompanied me since childhood kicked in. Halfway
through my conversation with our plant manager, I said to him, “Let’s not
do this. I don’t want to play this game. Forget that I called.”
I informed Haldeman that I would not have my employees spy. Here
I was saying no to the second most powerful person in the country. He
didn’t appreciate responses like that, as he viewed them as signs of disloy-
alty. I might as well have been saying farewell. So be it. I left within the
next six months.
As  one  can  see  from  the  photo  of  the  seventy-three  family
members  that  graces  his  annual  Christmas  card,  Huntsman  is
extremely proud of his large family. Just a year after resigning from
the White House staff, he and Karen faced a big test when their
youngest  son,  Mark,  was  born  with  severe  mental  limitations.
Mark’s doctor told his parents that their son would not be able to
read,  write,  or  go  to  school,  because  his  mental  capacity  would
never go beyond that of a four-year-old. The doctor recommended
that Mark be committed to an institution. The doctor’s proposal to
institutionalize Mark represented an impossible values conflict for
the Huntsmans. Family was everything to them, and Mark was just
as much a part of their family as their other children. They decided
that, whatever it took, Mark would live at home.
When Penny and I visited the Huntsmans for a tour of their
cancer institute and hospital in 2002, Jon proudly introduced us to
Mark, who greeted us with a friendly smile and a big hug. “Mark
94TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 94

doesn’t know what people do for a living, and can’t tell a custodian
from a CEO,” Huntsman told us. “He judges people only by the
goodness of their heart. He sizes up individuals quickly and spots
phonies immediately. If their heart is good, he gives them a big hug.
Every day I learn from watching him. He has been the role model
and anvil of our family.”
In 2001 Huntsman faced the biggest challenge of his career. His
company was on the verge of bankruptcy. The company’s desperate
condition was less a function of its own missteps than the deep reces-
sion in its chemical and packaging markets. Prices and profit margins
were falling rapidly as competitors continued to produce far more
than the shrinking demand. To make matters worse, energy costs
and raw material prices were spiraling out of control. As a conse-
quence, Huntsman’s high-yield bonds were trading at 25 cents on
the dollar.
Although he had made his son Peter the CEO, Huntsman was
still chairman of the board, founder, and the company’s largest share-
holder. On a somber day, financial experts, lawyers, representatives
of his eighty-seven lenders, and bankruptcy experts from New York
and Los Angeles gathered in Salt Lake City and presented him with
their unanimous opinion. Huntsman had but one choice: seek a
court-supervised Chapter 11 bankruptcy or sit helplessly by as cred-
itors shut the company down altogether by refusing to ship vital raw
materials.
Listening patiently to their analyses and entreaties, he thought
to  himself,  “I  will  not  let  this  company  be  seized  by  corporate
lawyers, bankers, and highly paid consultants. Not one of them can
comprehend  my  notions  of  character  and  integrity.”  Huntsman
answered in a single word: “No.” To him, bankruptcy was not an
option. His name was on the door—and on the debt. He believed
his integrity was at stake.
There are times when the consultants and lawyers and outside advisers
would like to tell us how to run our lives. Are we men and women
of character, integrity, kindness, and charity, or are we going to be
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES95
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 95

motivated by what somebody else says? At the end of our life, we have to
determine what we want said at our funeral.
Huntsman called his team together day after day in the darkest
of hours and told them, “We are going to make it. Our name is on
the door. We will go to every one of our bankers, all eighty-seven of
them, and carve out deals that we can live with. We will bring in
our bonds and redeem them for equity.”
The company went through three years of turmoil, as Hunts-
man refused to give in. The only person standing with him through-
out  this  crisis  was  his  wife.  As  he  observed,  “Karen  was  a  great
cheerleader and supporter.”
You have to have someone next to you who is tremendously sympathetic.
My bankers and close associates abandoned me, so for years Karen was
the only one there for me. That’s because she knew me best. She knew
how critical it was to me to maintain my integrity. If one person lost one
penny anywhere along the line, I would have lost my character as a man.
During  the  process  Huntsman  had  a  heart  attack  and  con-
tracted Addison’s disease as a result of his run-down immune sys-
tem. However, he said with pride, “I repaid every single debt.”
As of today, the bondholders have been paid 100 cents on the dollar.
Huntsman’s creditors have been paid in full and have extended us more
credit. Huntsman stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is
doing well. Our earnings are the highest in history.
Reflecting on his brush with bankruptcy, Huntsman commented,
“At the end of the day, the creditors were our salvation. Building
good will, being honest and kind, and paying your bills along life’s
pathway come back to serve you when you’re down and out.”
There are times in our lives when we have to ask ourselves, are we going
to let this erosion of our life happen, or are we going to step up and change
96TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 96

it? Your life speaks for itself. If I had tried to cheat somebody during my
lifetime or did not play by rules, they would have exercised their natural
rights when I got in trouble. The human heart and the human soul have
an enormous amount of capacity to change direction in a positive way if
we just keep outsiders from influencing what we’re doing.
Again  and  again,  Huntsman’s  True  North  was  tested  in  the
most severe ways. Yet he remained true to his values, without devi-
ating. It is highly unlikely he could have done so without a high
level of self-awareness and clarity about what he believed.
Do you know how you will respond in similar situations? What
are you going to stand for in your life? Once you know that, it is
essential to be true to what you believe. The only way to prepare for
crises like these is to understand your values and then determine
your leadership principles.
Principles are values translated into action. Having a solid base of
values and testing them under pressure enables you to develop the
principles you will use in leading. For example, a value such as “con-
cern for others” might be translated into a leadership principle such as
“create a work environment where people are respected for their con-
tributions, provided job security, and allowed to fulfill their potential.”
All leaders operate with principles, even if they do so subcon-
sciously. Take the basic question, “What motivates people?” Some
leaders believe that people are motivated to do as little work as pos-
sible. They lead by a principle that establishes strict rules of conduct
and behavior and enforces them rigidly in order to force people to
work. In response to the same question, other leaders believe that
people  genuinely  want  to  do  good  work  and  find  significance
through their work. They operate with a principle of empowerment
that gives people freedom to do their work, encourages them to
excel, and trusts them to monitor themselves.
Narayana Murthy: Leading with Principles. Narayana Murthy
is a successful entrepreneur who founded Infosys on a clear set
of  guiding  principles  from  which  he  has  never  deviated.
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES97
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 97

Murthy grew up in lower-middle-class surroundings in southern
India. His father was a civil servant who prided himself on his eth-
ical standards and who taught his children a clear sense of values.
In his youth Murthy was influenced by the teachings of Mahatma
Gandhi and was involved with socialist youth organizations. He
became a strong believer in the redistribution of wealth as a method
of alleviating India’s massive poverty.
After Murthy’s graduation from his university, his professor nom-
inated him to go to Paris to install a logistics and baggage-handling
system at Charles de Gaulle Airport. Murthy was fascinated by the
intellectuals he met at Parisian cafés in the late 1960s. Describing
his time there, he said, “As a twenty-three-year-old Indian, I grew up
on a heavy diet of Nehru’s socialist philosophy. In Paris I got the
inspiration for compassionate capitalism. I learned how French peo-
ple put the interest of community ahead of their own interest.”
In the process, Murthy imbibed an atmosphere of action and
inquiry that gave rise to four guiding principles. First, the only way
to remove poverty is to create new jobs and more wealth. Second,
there  are  only  a  few  people  who  can  lead  the  creation  of  these
enterprises and create jobs and wealth. Third, these people need
incentives to create wealth in a fair manner. And, finally, it is not
the responsibility of the government to create jobs or wealth; the
government’s task is to create an environment where a fair incen-
tive system encourages people to create more jobs and more wealth.
Murthy explained,
As I look back on the idealism of my youth, I realize that people need
opportunities, incentives, and competition in order to better themselves.
This is the essence of capitalism. If you combine the spirit of capitalism
with fairness, decency, transparency, and honesty, the result is compas-
sionate capitalism.
Returning to India, Murthy and a group of younger colleagues
founded Infosys Technologies in 1982 and built it into India’s lead-
ing IT outsourcing company. Infosys gave Murthy the platform to
98TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 98

translate his values into his business principles and to be clear about
his ethical boundaries. “Our dream was to demonstrate that you
could run a business in India without corruption and create wealth,
legally and ethically,” he explained.
From the outset, Murthy and his colleagues wanted to create
India’s most respected company. Despite the difficulties of starting
the business, Murthy and his team adhered to a principled approach.
“It was a crisis throughout,” he recalled. “We were forced to finance
growth out of our earnings, but that instilled discipline.”
Because Murthy refused to pay bribes, Infosys had to wait a year
for installation of a telephone line. “What drains your energy or
enthusiasm is not the fiscal problem, but violating your value sys-
tem. Leaders with principles are less likely to get bullied or pushed
around because they can draw clear lines in the sand. We always
believed that the softest pillow is a clear conscience. I feel fortunate
that we have never had a situation where we lost sleep because we
did something wrong.” Eventually, the demands for bribes ceased.
“If you refuse to buckle on the first couple of transactions,” said
Murthy, “they will go trouble someone else.”
Compliance with the value system creates an environment that enables
people to have high aspirations, self-esteem, confidence in the future, and
the enthusiasm to take on very difficult tasks. Leaders have to “walk the
talk” and demonstrate their commitment to the value system. There is a
direct correlation between the value system of our company and the suc-
cess we have had over the last twenty-four years. I hope this is justification
for our people to accept our values and run with them.
I have rarely met a business leader who is as intentional about
knowing his values and establishing his leadership principles as
Narayana Murthy. His experience living in France had a formative
impact on his thinking about his principles and led to the growth
and success of Infosys. Murthy has had the courage to stick to his
values, going contrary to many cultural norms in India, and he
has adhered to his principles throughout his career.
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES99
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 99

Judy  Haberkorn:  Acknowledging  Mistakes.  Verizon’s  Judy
Haberkorn  operated  with  a  clear  principle  in  dealing  with  cus-
tomers:  “Always  be  open  and  transparent.”  That  principle  was
tested when one of her people made a significant mistake, one for
which Haberkorn thought she might be fired. In attempting to save
money, an employee decided to send consumers their telephone
PIN numbers in unsealed envelopes. The envelopes wound up in
building lobbies below the mailboxes where anyone could steal the
name, phone number, and PIN. When she took the issue and her
concerns to her boss, Haberkorn was told not to worry. “It will die
down,” he said. Frustrated, she responded, “This is a test of how to
handle a disaster versus how not to handle it, much like Johnson &
Johnson Tylenol.”
If you don’t want to do this the Tylenol way, then fire me right now and
put somebody else in this job. As long as I’m in charge, we’re going the
Tylenol route. I am sending a telegram to every one of our customers
explaining what happened. We will pay for any calls made inappropriately
as a result of this disaster, and immediately give customers a new calling-
card number and PIN. I will be on the local news shows tonight to explain
what happened and what Verizon will do.
As a result, the issue went away. Reflecting on her experience,
Haberkorn noted,
It cost us some money, but there was no doubt in anybody’s mind that we
did the right thing. A mistake happened, and it was costly. To have our
customers feeling we didn’t care about their security and were careless with
their privacy would have been a far greater disaster.
It isn’t easy to take on your boss. Most people would feel they
would  be  protected  if  their  boss  told  them  to  do  nothing.  For
Haberkorn, her principles of how to treat customers were worth
challenging her boss and taking the corrective action anyway. Her
actions took a lot of courage, a mark of an authentic leader.
100TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 100

Setting Ethical Boundaries
Your ethical boundaries set clear limits on what you will do when you
are tempted or are under pressure or when you start rationalizing a
series of marginal decisions. If you establish clear boundaries early
in life, your moral compass will kick in when you reach your limits
and tell you it is time to pull back, even if the personal sacrifices
may  be  significant.  That’s  what  Enron  leaders  Ken  Lay  and  Jeff
Skilling lacked as they lurched from deal making into dishonesty
and destroyed their company.
One of my MBA students, who had just returned from a tour of
duty in Iraq as a counterintelligence officer in the U.S. Marine
Corps, told a poignant story of how he used ethical boundaries to
set limits on his behavior. Before he left for Iraq, he made a list of
the things he would not do, even under the most extreme circum-
stances. He put the list in an envelope and kept it with him. When
he came under pressure in Iraq, he frequently pulled it out as a
reminder of the ethical boundaries he had established for himself.
One way leaders understand their ethical boundaries is to use
the New York Timestest. Before proceeding with any action, ask
yourself, “How would I feel if this entire situation, including tran-
scripts of our discussions, was printed on the first page of the New
York Times?” If your answers are negative, then it is time to rethink
your actions; if they are positive, you should feel comfortable pro-
ceeding, even if others criticize your actions later.
Leading by Values
Many  companies  these  days  are  shifting  from  management  by
objectives to leading by values. IBM CEO Sam Palmisano is using
this approach to unite IBM employees as a powerful global force in
information systems. When he took over from Lou Gerstner, his
iconic predecessor, Palmisano did not create new values or merely
reiterate  the  values  professed  by  founder  Thomas  Watson.
Instead,  he  employed  a  company-wide  online  process  in
PRACTICING YOUR VALUES AND PRINCIPLES101
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
N
E
Values and
Principles
Values and
Principles
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 101

which all employees around the globe had the opportunity to par-
ticipate for three days in determining what IBM’s values should be.
Palmisano is using the values emerging from this process to inte-
grate IBM’s 350,000 employees into a global integrated network.
Medtronic founder Earl Bakken first exposed me to leading by
values when I joined the company in 1989. For the next thirteen
years we used the company’s values to unify employees around a
common purpose and philosophy of doing business. At first, we had
some employees, concentrated in the international division, who
did not take us seriously and continued to do business according to
their local practices. Internal audit reports turned up repeated vio-
lations of company standards in these countries.
I decided we had no choice but to make significant manage-
ment changes. Rather than focusing on lower-level employees, we
started by replacing the heads of international, Europe, Asia, and
Latin America with leaders who were committed to leading by val-
ues. When violations were uncovered, we made a public statement
about what had happened and what actions the company was tak-
ing. The new international leaders gave us the confidence that we
could  expand  the  business  rapidly  without  constantly  worrying
about ethical violations. When the company went through a rapid
growth phase in the mid- to late 1990s, the leading by values phi-
losophy  became  an  invaluable  tool  for  rapidly  introducing  new
employees to the company’s culture.
As we search for our True North, it is important to acknowledge
how easy it is to get pulled off course. The pressures to perform, the
ingrained fear of failure, and the rewards for success can cause us to
deviate from our values. By knowing our ethical boundaries and
testing our values under pressure, we are able to get back on track.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Six, you may want
to complete the Chapter Five Exercise found in Appendix C.
102TRUE NORTH
c05.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 102

103
6
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU
TO BE A LEADER?
If you’re just chasing the rabbit around the course,
you’re not running toward anything meaningful.
—Alice Woodwark, McKinsey
Charles “Chuck” Schwab went through some very low moments in
his mid-thirties. Recently divorced, he experienced a period of deep
uncertainty about what to do professionally. He enrolled in law
school at night in an attempt to follow in the footsteps of his father
and grandfather. After just three weeks, he realized he lacked the
required reading and writing skills and dropped out.
NW
NE
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 103

Schwab had struggled with reading all his life, but it was not
until his early forties that he learned he was dyslexic. Although
dyslexia had caused him difficult times in school, he always knew
he was good at math. So he began working part-time for an invest-
ment firm and discovered his interest in investments and knack for
investment research.
Like  many  leaders,  Schwab  needed  time  and  experience  to
determine what motivated him. Eventually, he turned his passion
for investments into building a company that would democratize
the entire brokerage industry. Schwab’s motivations and capabili-
ties finally came together when he was thirty-seven, and he founded
Charles Schwab & Company.
Schwab traces his motivations to his upbringing in the post-
Depression era. Times were tough in the small farming community
of Woodland, California, where he grew up during the 1940s. His
family used ration stamps during World War II to buy food and
bartered for its business transactions. Schwab’s parents struggled
their entire lives to be financially independent. “We were still suf-
fering from the hangover of the Depression years,” he recalled.
He began his entrepreneurial pursuits as a boy. At age ten, he
recruited a friend to help him pick up empty Coca-Cola bottles at
Woodland High School football games, collecting a nickel for each.
During the hot summer days he sold ice cream and raised chickens.
He was one of the first Avon kids, riding his bike around Woodland
delivering cosmetic orders. “My father taught me the importance of
being independent,” he explained. “I was motivated to be finan-
cially successful because I didn’t want to have my life limited by
resources.”
When  the  SEC  deregulated  brokerage  services  in  the  early
1970s, Schwab saw his opportunity to start a company. Prior to that
time, stock market transactions went through large brokerage firms
that charged fixed fees. Without competitive rates, many Ameri-
cans could not afford to participate in the stock market. In 1974
Charles Schwab & Company entered the market, reducing broker-
age commissions by 75 percent. Before long, individual accounts
104TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 104

like 401(k)s and IRAs were commonplace. “If you knew what you
wanted to buy or sell, we could do it very efficiently. We’d complete
the trade for a small commission without the interference of some
hotshot broker.”
In his interview Schwab spoke calmly about his early years. But
when he began talking about how Wall Street brokers neglected
the average American investor, his face reddened and his hand
gestures fired. Leaning forward in his chair, he exclaimed, “Let me
tell you, it was a den of thieves. Whatever the dealers wanted,
they got!”
The unfairness of brokerage industry practices that existed
prior to deregulation touched a nerve deep inside him. “I always put
the customer on top of a stool whose four corners are value, cus-
tomer service, technology, and the best price,” he explained. “Wall
Street flips the stool over, sitting on top of the stool with the client
underneath.”
In a capitalist society, financial independence is fundamental. We are
blessed in America with tremendous economic freedom and freedom of
choice. I wanted to make Schwab a fully democratic place where people
could come to us, disclose what they wanted, and get the best package
available at the lowest cost, all without the conflicts of interest so prevalent
in the brokerage industry. Wall Street should be like your doctor, focusing
on yourinterest, not itsinterest.
Schwab’s strengths, talents, and motivations all came together
when he founded Charles Schwab. He combined his investment
research skills with the persistence and resilience learned from years
of suffering with dyslexia. His upbringing instilled an enormous
respect  for  individuals  who  want  to  achieve  financial  indepen-
dence. Building a company with a cause in which he passionately
believed, he has helped millions become more independent while
achieving  financial  independence  himself.  His  company  is  an
American icon, with fourteen thousand employees and a mar-
ket capitalization of $20 billion.
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?105
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 105

Schwab’s case exemplifies the importance of discovering your
motivations: you need to know what motivates you and have a real-
istic understanding of your strengths and weaknesses so you can put
your strongest capabilities to work. When you do so, you will dis-
cover the sweet spotof your motivated capabilities.
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivations
Because authentic leaders need to sustain high levels of motivation
and keep their motivations in balance, it is critically important to
understand what motivates them. This may take many years, even
if  their  formative  experiences  occurred  when  they  were  much
younger.
There are two types of motivations—extrinsic and intrinsic.
Extrinsic motivations,such as getting good grades, winning athletic
competitions,  or  making  money,  are  measured  by  the  external
world. Nearly every leader has had a strong achievement orienta-
tion since childhood. Most competed in athletics in their youth and
worked to excel in school. After graduating, many young leaders
want to obtain a job with a prestigious organization. Eventually,
their extrinsic motivations take the form of monetary accumula-
tion, power, title, elevated social status, and prestige.
Although they are reluctant to admit it, many leaders are moti-
vated by achieving success against the parameters measured by the
outside world. They enjoy the feelings of success, recognition, and
status that come with promotions and financial rewards.
Intrinsic motivations,on the other hand, are derived from your
sense  of  the  meaning  of  your  life—your  True  North.  They  are
closely linked to your life story and the way you frame it. Examples
include personal growth, helping other people develop, taking on
social  causes,  and  making  a  difference  in  the  world.  Chuck
Schwab’s passion for helping Americans achieve financial inde-
pendence is an intrinsic motivation, even if the end result made
him wealthy. Exhibit 6.1 highlights the differences between extrin-
sic and intrinsic motivations.
106TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 106

Discovering Your Intrinsic Motivations
Intrinsic motivations come from within you and are congruent with
your True North. They are more subtle than extrinsic motivations.
Don Carty, former CEO of American Airlines, noted, “What moti-
vated me was the notion that you can have a far greater societal
impact in large corporations than you can in a small enterprise.”
John Thain, CEO of the New York Stock Exchange, said, “I am
motivated by doing a really good job at whatever I am doing, but I
prefer to multiply my impact on society through a group of people.”
Ann Moore, now CEO of Time, Inc., said, “I love magazines
and the publishing world. I came here twenty-five years ago solely
because I loved reading magazines.” In her twenties, Moore espe-
cially enjoyed Sports Illustrated,the Time, Inc. publication where
she worked for ten years. “If you’re a sports fan, how much fun is it
to work at Sports Illustrated?There are real psychic rewards.” These
days Moore is proud of her company’s newest publication, Real Sim-
ple,because “It helps women organize their lives and relieve their
stress. It has become the hottest magazine in America. Women de-
stress these days by reading, and chances are they are reading a
Time, Inc. magazine. I am in awe of the importance of what we do.”
Cesar Conde is vice president of Univision, the largest Spanish-
language television network in the United States. After the Cas-
tro  revolution,  his  grandparents  helped  his  mother  flee  Cuba
for the United States because they wanted her to have bet-
ter chances. At Univision, which employs many first- and
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?107
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
Exhibit 6.1  Extrinsic and Intrinsic Motivations
Extrinsic Motivations
• Monetary compensation
• Having power
• Having a title
• Public recognition
• Social status
• Winning over others
Intrinsic Motivations
• Personal growth
• Satisfaction of doing a good job
• Helping others develop
• Finding meaning from efforts
• Being true to one’s beliefs
• Making a difference in the world
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 107

second-generation Hispanic Americans, Conde seeks to create sim-
ilar opportunities for his coworkers.
One day his boss took him to look at the company parking lot
and told him, “Fifteen years ago the parking lot was full of rickety
old cars owned by our employees. With the company’s success, the
cars are new and employees can afford to send their kids to good
schools.” Conde said, “I can identify with his pride. It is motivating
to realize I have the opportunity to do something great for other
people.”
Donna Dubinsky, CEO of Palm and cofounder of Handspring,
sees technology as a way to change the world in fundamental ways.
She recalls the day when she was introduced to VisiCalc, the first
personal computer spreadsheet program. “That moment changed
my life,” she said. “I had been a banker doing spreadsheets by hand
and realized this was going to be huge. Throughout my career I have
been motivated to make computing tools more accessible to peo-
ple.” Dubinsky’s passion for using technology earned her a spot in
Fortune’s Innovators Hall of Fame.
Discovering your intrinsic motivations may come from surpris-
ing sources. In his mid-twenties, Bob Fisher, now chairman of Gap,
Inc., was feeling increasingly stressed at work and needed a new
focus. “I got immediate pleasure out of growing the men’s knit top
business, but it’s here today, gone tomorrow. Just selling another
shirt was not turning me on.” His roommate and friends convinced
him to join them for a fly-fishing weekend. Fisher immediately fell
in  love  with  the  sport.  “I  got  consumed  by  fly  fishing,”  he  said.
“After  spending  numerous  weekends  on  Northern  California’s
rivers, I discovered my passion for the outdoors.”
One day, as he fished in the North Fork of the Feather River,
Fisher came across the remains of rusted gold mining equipment, a
discovery that ultimately changed his life. In harsh contrast to the
tranquil river settings to which he was accustomed, mining equip-
ment was everywhere. “The equipment had been there since the
early twentieth century and had created a huge mess. That intro-
duced me to environmental problems.” Shortly thereafter, Fisher
108TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 108

joined the board of the NRDC. He educated himself about envi-
ronmental issues for the next eight years. At Gap, Fisher organized
other employees to look at what the company could do to recycle.
Spearheaded by Fisher’s leadership, the grassroots effort grew into
Gap’s highly admired corporate social responsibility initiative.
Avoiding Traps
Many people never tap into their most powerful motivations. With
society’s unprecedented attention on material gain, temptations
and social pressures cause many leaders to seek the world’s acclaim
rather than doing what motivates them internally. The pressure
starts early, when college graduates compare salaries. It evolves as
they compare apartments or new home purchases. Alan Horn, pres-
ident  of  Warner  Brothers,  describes  how  he  consciously  avoids
these traps:
Early in your career the incremental dollar can change the incremental
quality of life because it enables you to buy a better car, a better house,
etc. At some point, however, the incremental dollar does not change the
quality of life at all. In fact, incremental purchases just increase the com-
plexity of life, not the enjoyment of life. I don’t want more things because
they simply wouldn’t make me happier.
Many  leaders  advised  emerging  leaders  to  beware  of  getting
caught up in social, peer, or parental expectations. Debra Dunn,
who has lived in Silicon Valley for decades as a Hewlett-Packard
executive,  acknowledged  the  constant  pressures  from  external
sources: “The path of accumulating material possessions is clearly
laid out. You know how to measure it. If you don’t pursue that path,
people wonder what is wrong with you. The only way to avoid get-
ting caught up in materialism is to understand where you find hap-
piness and fulfillment.”
Moving  away  from  the  external  validation  of  personal
achievement  is  not  easy.  Achievement-oriented  leaders
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?109
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 109

grow  so  accustomed  to  successive  accomplishments  throughout
their early years that it takes courage to pursue their intrinsic moti-
vations. But at some point, most leaders recognize that they need to
address more difficult questions in order to pursue their true moti-
vations.  McKinsey’s  Alice  Woodwark,  who  at  twenty-nine  had
achieved success at each stage in her life, noted:
My version of achievement was pretty naive, born of things I learned early
in life about praise and being valued. But if you’re just chasing the rabbit
around the course, you’re not running toward anything meaningful.
Many leaders turned down higher-paying jobs in early career
decisions in order to pursue roles they would enjoy. They came out
ahead  in  the  end—in  both  satisfaction  and  compensation—
because they were successful in doing what they loved. Ann Moore
had a dozen job offers after business school and took the lowest-
paying one—with Time, Inc. “I had student loans hanging over my
head, but I took the job because I loved magazines. At the time
nobody in my class understood why I made that choice, but at our
twenty-fifth reunion they understood completely.”
Donna Dubinsky took a job at Apple Computer for half of what
she could have earned in a professional services firm. Ann Fudge,
CEO of Young & Rubicam, also took the lowest-paying offer she
received out of business school. She explained, “You can’t make
career decisions just based on money. I hoped that the money would
come, and it did, but if I had made my career decision based on the
money, I would have been on a totally different career path.”
In his twenties, Howard Schultz was afraid to tell his mother he
was leaving a high-paying sales job at Xerox to pursue the venture
that eventually became Starbucks. “I was paying college loans until
I was God knows how old. If I stayed at Xerox two more years,
though, I knew I would be locked in. It was like a relationship that
is safe, but you’re not in love.”
Citing a recent visit with business school students, Dave Cox,
former CEO of Cowles Media, quoted one as saying, “Maybe I have
110TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 110

to get my satisfaction someplace else and I’ll just do the business
part to make money.” Amazed by the comment, Cox raised his eye-
brows quizzically, “Why would you want to spend your time doing
work you don’t enjoy? These should be the best years of your life.
There is so much energy that results from feeling valued and con-
necting with what you’re enthusiastic about. That is when you add
the greatest value.”
Many young leaders are tempted to take high-salaried jobs to
pay off loans or build their savings, even if they have no interest
in the work and do not intend to stay. They believe that after ten
years they can move on to do the work they love. Yet many become
so  dependent  on  maintaining  a  certain  lifestyle  that  they  get
trapped in jobs where they are demotivated and unhappy. Locked
into the high-income/high-expense life, they cannot afford to do
work they love. Ironically, not one of the leaders interviewed wound up
taking a position predicated upon establishing wealth early so that they
could later pursue roles they would enjoy.
Jean-Pierre Rosso, former CEO of Case-New Holland and cur-
rently chair of the World Economic Forum USA, recalled, “I always
focused on being happy in what I was doing. If I was motivated and
did my job well, I knew the money would follow.” Per Lofberg, for-
mer  CEO  of  Medco,  challenged  young  business  leaders  to  think
carefully about the lifestyle they choose for themselves: “It is dan-
gerous to get overcommitted to a high-flying lifestyle at a young age.”
Many people would like to give up a cushy corporate job for a
high-risk entrepreneurial opportunity, but they are afraid because it
seems too risky and they have committed themselves to a large
mortgage or too many cars. That holds a lot of people back from
pursuing what motivates them and brings them satisfaction.
Balancing Your Motivations
For leaders with a high-achievement orientation, external motiva-
tions and positive validation by the outside world are a natural
consequence. They appreciate the recognition that comes
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?111
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 111

with their accomplishments. The key to developing as an authentic
leader is not eschewing your extrinsic motivations but balancing them with
intrinsic motivations.
Many leaders want to ascend to senior roles in order to be cen-
tral to the action. Marianne Toldalagi, former general manager of
American Express Consumer Travel, acknowledged: “I don’t like
hiding in the shadows. I like visibility and power and thrive on
recognition.” Ecolab CEO Doug Baker recognized from a young age
that he wanted to be in charge. “In a new situation, it doesn’t take
long before I want to run the show. I don’t know where this comes
from, but I’ve always had it.”
It is natural to seek recognition from peers, promotions in title,
and positive media accolades. These are all positive outcomes of
achieving success in the eyes of the world. The danger comes when
leaders become so enamored of these external symbols that they
can never get enough. At this point they are at the greatest risk of
losing  touch  with  their  intrinsic  motivations  and  abandoning
things that give them a deeper sense of fulfillment.
Many leaders have learned the hard way that external recogni-
tion can be a fickle lover. When things do not go their way, their
external sources of gratification disappear very quickly. So do super-
ficial friends and acquaintances who are more interested in associ-
ating with them as a success than they are in being there for them
when things go poorly. The key to avoiding these traps is finding a
balance between your desires for external validation and intrinsic
motivations that provide fulfillment in your work.
Finding Your Motivated Capabilities
The term motivated capabilitiesis used to describe the alignment of
your motivations with your strongest capabilities in order to find the
sweet spotfor your leadership. (See Figure 6.1.) When we talked
with Claremont professor Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi, a pioneer in
the field of positive psychology, he provided the following advice
about motivation: “Find out what you are good at and what you like
112TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 112

to  do.”  In  these  two  simple  dimensions,  Csikszentmihalyi  cut
through the jargon and summed up what our interviewees learned
through hundreds of years of experience.
In reflecting on what she had learned through her work experi-
ence as a star consultant at McKinsey, Alice Woodwark noted that
she tended to focus on negative feedback. The cycle continued
until she realized she was spending so much time responding to neg-
atives that she did not celebrate or take advantage of her strengths.
“No  one  achieves  anything  brilliant  by  mitigating  their  weak-
nesses,” she explained.
Brilliance comes only from exploiting your strengths. Many of
the most extraordinary people in history were tremendously flawed
individuals.  Margaret  Thatcher,  Gandhi,  and  Napoleon  all  had
striking weaknesses. Yet there was a part of them that was ridicu-
lously gifted and enabled them to achieve amazing things through
their leadership.
Through intense reflection, Donna Dubinsky came to a similar
realization in her mid-thirties. After ten years of eighty-hour weeks
at Apple Computer and Claris Software, she was burned out and
decided to take a yearlong sabbatical to live in Paris. There she
found an apartment, learned to paint, studied French, and thought
about what she would do next. “I reflected on what I am good at,
what I’m not good at, and what value I could bring. I realized I am
not an innovative thinker and will never have the product savvy of
Steve Jobs. I had been in the technology industry for ten years
and had never thought of one big new idea.”
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?113
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
Figure 6.1  The Sweet Spot of Your Motivated Capabilities
Intrinsic
Motivations
Extrinsic
Motivations
Strengths
Weaknesses
MotivationsCapabilities
Sweet
Spot
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 113

As she thought further about her capabilities, she acknowledged
her  ability  to  recognize  other  people’s  good  ideas,  build  a  strong
team, and design key business processes. “I had everything except
the ability to envision the next great product,” she concluded.
When I returned to Silicon Valley, I had a clear focus. I knew I needed to
find a great product person to team with me. It wasn’t so much about the
product as it was finding a partner who is skilled where I am not.
Donna eventually found Jeff Hawkins, the talented product
developer who created the Palm Pilot, and she became Palm’s CEO
in 1992. The two have such complementary skills that they are
considered inseparable business partners around Silicon Valley and
are currently working on their third venture, Numenta.
Warren Bennis gained an understanding of his motivated capa-
bilities in the 1970s when he served as president of the University of
Cincinnati. “Some people know their talents earlier than I did. I
learned the hard way that being a university president is not for me.”
A year into his tenure, Bennis was mired in paperwork one evening
when he saw that the clock read 4A.M. “I had a moment of truth.
Either I couldn’t manage the place or it was unmanageable.”
From that experience, Bennis recognized that he derived his
greatest motivation from interacting with people, especially stu-
dents. He did not enjoy the transactional aspects of being president,
such as writing 150 letters a day to alumni. “I realized my personal
truth:  I  was  never  going  to  be  able  to  be  happy  with  positional
power. What I really wanted was personal power: having influence
based on my voice,” Bennis said.
Returning to teaching and writing at the University of South-
ern California, Bennis found his sweet spot.He has profoundly influ-
enced a generation of students and has written twenty books on
leadership. He noted, “My real gift is what I can do in the classroom
or as a mentor.”
When leaders step out of their comfort zones to take on new
challenges, they often discover capabilities they did not know they
114TRUE NORTH
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 114

had. When the late John Gardner joined the U.S. Marine Corps
during World War II, he discovered he enjoyed action as much as
reflection. That led him to become president of the Carnegie Cor-
poration and secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the
Johnson  administration.  Gardner  went  on  to  found  the  White
House Fellows Program, Common Cause, the Independent Sector,
Urban  Coalition,  and  the  American  Leadership  Forum,  as  he
encouraged the next generation of leaders to engage in public ser-
vice. Gardner once said, “There were some qualities that life was
waiting to pull out of me.” When you also challenge yourself by tak-
ing risks, you may be surprised to find leadership abilities you did
not know you had.
You will be most effective as a leader when you find opportu-
nities that highly motivate you and utilize your greatest capabili-
ties. One without the other is insufficient. To find them, you must
understand your deepest motivations and be honest with yourself
about your capabilities. Being motivated by something you are not
good at will not enable you to succeed as a leader, nor will pursuing
leadership roles that do not motivate you. But when you find a role
that meshes your motivations with your capabilities, you will dis-
cover the sweet spot that maximizes your effectiveness as a leader.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Seven, you may want
to complete the Chapter Six Exercise found in Appendix C.
WHAT MOTIVATES YOU TO BE A LEADER?115
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Motivations
Motivations
c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 115

c06.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 116

117
7
BUILDING YOUR 
SUPPORT TEAM
Have some group that will tell you the truth and
whom you can tell the truth. If you have people
like that around you, what else matters?
—Warren Bennis
Your support team, which sits at the base of your compass, is the
fourth element of your development plan. Members of your team
help you stay focused on your True North, keep you grounded in
reality, and provide the support you need as you venture on your
leadership journey.
NW
NE
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 117

Leaders do not succeed on their own. The loneliness of leader-
ship has been well documented, but the remedies have not. Every-
one  has  insecurities;  some  are  just  more  open  about  them  than
others. Even the most outwardly assured executives need support
and appreciation. Authentic leaders build support teams that will
counsel them in times of uncertainty, be there in times of difficulty,
and celebrate with them in times of success.
Strong support teams provide affirmation, advice, perspective,
calls for course corrections when needed, and, above all, love. After
their hardest days, leaders find comfort in being with people on
whom they can rely so they can be open and vulnerable. During the
low points, they cherish the friends who appreciate them for who
they are, not whatthey are.
It is easy to be tempted or seduced by the interests and expecta-
tions of others. The people with whom authentic leaders surround
themselves ground their values and help them stay on track, espe-
cially when outside forces pressure them to take another course.
Without strong relationships to provide perspective, it is very easy
to lose your way.
How do you go about building your support team? Most authen-
tic leaders have a multifaceted support structure that includes their
spouse or significant other, family members, mentors, close friends,
and personal and professional support groups. Many experienced
leaders have built their support networks over time, as the experi-
ences, shared histories, and willingness to be vulnerable with people
close to them create the trust and confidence they need in times of
trial and uncertainty. Leaders must give as much to their relationships as
they get from them so that mutually beneficial relationships can develop.
The Most Important Person to Your Leadership
Your support team starts with having at least one person in your life
with whom you can be completely vulnerable and open, warts and
all, and still be loved unconditionally. Often that person is the only
one who can tell you the honest truth.
118TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 118

Most leaders have their closest relationships with their spouses,
although some develop these bonds with other family members, a
close friend, or a trusted mentor. When leaders feel unconditionally
loved by another person, they are more likely to accept themselves
for who they really are. This enables them to become less depen-
dent on external reinforcement.
Paula Rosput Reynolds, CEO of Safeco, found such a person in
her second husband.
When you go home at the end of the day and your employees think you’re
a jerk, or something has gone so wrong it seems hopeless, you’ve got to
have somebody who says, “I love you unconditionally.” I always had that
with my parents and my son. I’m fortunate now to have it with my hus-
band. I know I can always go home and he will love me.
Reynolds did not have that relationship in her first marriage.
She was focused on her own shortcomings and the lack of feeling
acknowledged  for  her  accomplishments.  As  she  matured  and
became less dependent on the need for acknowledgment, she found
that she could make her marriage flourish as well.
Your partner is someone with whom you share mutual commit-
ment, dedication, and love, someone who can hold up a mirror to
tell you the truth in a compassionate way when you have strayed
from your True North. In your partner’s eyes, positions and accom-
plishments mean little, but the essence of who you are means every-
thing. Because most leaders are so well defended against criticism,
only those with whom they have a genuinely loving relationship
can penetrate the armor protecting their core.
Big Brothers Big Sisters’ Judy Vredenburgh and her husband
each have a deep appreciation for the values, character, and human-
ity of the other. She said, “I married someone who is not threatened
by my power or position.”
He made it clear that my position would not give me negotiating strength
in our relationship. He doesn’t care about the things that impress the
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM119
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 119

external world. He deeply values my humanity as well as my achievement
orientation, my sense of responsibility, and my values.
Leaders also described ways in which they have nurtured their
relationships  over  time.  Stanford  MBA  Ryan  Frederick  and  his
wife, Abi, put a lot of time and effort into developing their rela-
tionship. They took a personality test together to understand their
respective  interests  and  how  to  communicate  better.  They  also
sought out older couples from whom they could learn. “When we
find an older married couple we respect, we find it very helpful to
learn from them because it helps us grow intellectually, spiritually,
and in our relationship,” Frederick said.
Many  relationships  grow  over  time  through  an  expression  of
shared values that lead to a common purpose. Randy Komisar said his
marriage to Debra Dunn has been successful and lasting because it is
rooted in similar values. “When couples have very different experi-
ences, their values, principles, and needs may diverge over time.”
Debra and I are very independent, but extremely harmonious in terms of
our personal aspirations, values, and principles. We have a strong reso-
nance around questions like, “what is your legacy in this world?” We
didn’t start with that resonance, but it has grown over time. It is impor-
tant to be in synch about what we do with our lives.
Although Komisar’s career path as an entrepreneur was very dif-
ferent  from  Dunn’s  role  as  a  senior  executive  of  HP,  both  have
always been determined to make a positive social impact through
business. She said, “We each have a clear sense of our own identity,
but also this positive overlap.”
Families
Most  leaders  find  comfort  in  being  with  their  families.  Younger
leaders maintain close connections with their families of origin,
seeking out opportunities to share high-quality time with siblings,
120TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 120

parents, and grandparents. In knowing their parents at a deeper
level and learning more about their past, they wind up understand-
ing themselves better.
At  twenty-nine,  Julian  Flannery  has  worked  in  the  White
House as assistant to the president’s chief of staff and is currently
working for John Mack, CEO of Morgan Stanley. An only child, he
has been close to his mother since he was three, when his father left
the  family.  While  in  college,  Flannery  supported  his  mother
throughout his stepfather’s extended illness. These days he consults
with his mother like a best friend.
With increasingly long working hours, some leaders have sharply
limited their social lives. eBay president John Donahoe and his wife
imposed a moratorium on social events so that they could spend
quality time with their four children. When George Shultz was U.S.
secretary of state, he and his wife skipped all Washington social
events unless the president or vice president insisted they attend.
Marianne Toldalagi, formerly of American Express, emphasized
the importance of developing trusting relationships with her twin
children. “As a parent, I want my children to feel comfortable in
their skin. I am building a trusting relationship with them, so we
can talk about everything when they get into the teenage years.”
Whether with employees or with your kids, you can never take trust for
granted. It requires time to build and has to be earned. The key is making
sure other people feel respected without being judged. I try to help my chil-
dren know who they are and help them feel good about themselves. What
could be better than an environment of trust where people feel strong,
know who they are, and know how they can contribute?
Mentors
Many authentic leaders have had a mentor who has changed their
lives by helping them develop the skills to become better leaders and
the confidence to lead authentically. But what some people fail
to recognize, especially aspiring leaders, is the importance of
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM121
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 121

the two-way relationship with their mentors. Lasting relationships
must flow both ways.The best mentoring interactions spark mutual
learning, exploration of similar values, and shared enjoyment. But if
people are only looking for help from their mentors, instead of being
interested in their mentors’ lives as well, the relationship will not last
for long. It is the two-way nature of the connection that sustains it.
Coach Campbell: Mentorship in Action
Currently chairman and formerly CEO of Intuit, Bill Campbell is
the dean of mentoring in Silicon Valley. Many venture capitalists
and board members in northern California will not hire a new CEO
without first checking with Campbell. Although he keeps a low
public profile, “Coach Campbell” is one of Silicon Valley’s most
respected executives.
Campbell has mentored dozens of entrepreneurs and business
leaders,  including  three  of  the  leaders  we  interviewed:  Randy
Komisar, Donna Dubinsky, and Bruce Chizen. People are drawn to
him because they consider him a great mentor and leader who has
helped them unleash their own leadership potential. His selfless
spirit, cultivated on the football fields of his youth, has enabled him
to develop a loyal network of mentees, supporters, and friends.
Campbell played offensive guard at Columbia University and
supported the point scorers with a sheer intensity that still emanates
from his eyes. On first impression, his broad shoulders, tight jaw, and
tough talk make it seem like he is going to tackle you. Beneath the
façade, he genuinely cares about people. “When you’re with Bill,”
said Komisar, “you never have the sense he’s worrying about himself.”
While an executive at Apple Computer, Campbell led the spin-
off of Claris Software in 1987 and recruited a talented young team
to join him, including Komisar, Dubinsky, and Chizen. Each of the
three speaks with great nostalgia about the Claris years and their
strong affection for Campbell. They still call him regularly for wis-
dom, advice on difficult decisions, friendship, and laughter. They
are like a tight-knit family, and a very powerful one at that.
122TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 122

The  relationships  between  Campbell  and  his  mentees  have
been highly interdependent. Dubinsky, Komisar, and Chizen rec-
ognized that Campbell could help them enhance their skills while
they helped him to build Claris. Dubinsky said, “Bill taught us how
to communicate with employees, how to build a team, and how to
operate the company.” Chizen recalled watching Campbell during
quarterly operating reviews: “He taught me how to understand a
profit-and-loss statement, how manufacturing worked, and how to
package products. He gave me my MBA.” In building a diverse
team, Campbell relied upon Komisar, a trained lawyer, to master
contractual details while Dubinsky spearheaded the supply chain
and Chizen motivated the sales force.
Campbell also helped them discover their authentic leadership
by modeling it for them and pushing them to get outside themselves.
Dubinsky recalled the respect he showed for others. “Bill would walk
in and spend a few minutes every day talking to the receptionist. He
knew what the receptionist’s problems in life were and could relate
to what her kids were doing.” Campbell also knew how to give tough
love. He challenged his team to think beyond their own narrow
interests in order to focus on the entire company. Dubinsky noted,
“He pushed me a lot. He saw me as a champion for my people, but
insisted that I look out for the company’s best interests as well.”
Most important, Campbell empowered all three by regularly
asking them for advice and by revealing his own vulnerabilities.
Komisar recalled, “One of the things that Bill did was expose him-
self as a human being.”
He would give a speech to the whole company, imploring us, “We’re going
to do this!” Then we would go in his office, shut the door, and he would
say to me, “I’m worried. Do you think the team can do this?” I got to see
a vulnerable human being and to support him when he was down. He was
not a caricature.
By being vulnerable and making subordinates his advisers,
Campbell gave Komisar, Dubinsky, and Chizen the confidence
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM123
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 123

and license to be authentic in their own right. Komisar said he
learned to be comfortable with himself from being mentored by
Campbell:
Bill brings tremendous knowledge and experience to the table. He does not
give you a fish but teaches you how to fish. You sense from Bill an over-
whelming belief in you and a deep caring for what happens to you. That is
the highest expression of love.
The best mentors put the interests of those they are mentoring
above their own. These relationships can grow into strong personal
friendships, especially when the participants are no longer in the
same professional context. The cycle then continues when those
who benefited from strong mentoring offer to mentor others.
Recruiting Mentors
Mentoring relationships provide both the mentor and person men-
tored with opportunities to learn and grow while working toward
common goals. Many people are afraid to approach potential men-
tors because they do not want to ask for something. They fail to
realize how much they can contribute to the mentor. To have great
mentors, Warren Bennis tells young leaders, they have to recruit
them. He likens this to a dance where the two engage in mutual
learning. Reflecting on how he developed close relationships with
his mentors, he recalled, “They appreciated my openness, energy,
follow-up, and discipline.”
As a young entrepreneur building a fledgling company, Howard
Schultz realized he needed someone with whom he could share his
fears and vulnerabilities. When Starbucks was just an eleven-store
chain, Schultz heard Bennis lecture on leadership and said to him-
self, “This is someone I can learn from.”
Who do you talk to when you’re afraid to demonstrate vulnerability and
insecurity to others? You can talk to your wife or close friends, but you also
124TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 124

need advice from someone who has been there before. I asked Warren for
his help, calling him once or twice a month. He taught me that vulnera-
bility is a strength and a characteristic that people value. Demonstrating
your values, emotions, and sensitivities empowers others, as no one is
impervious to having doubts.
Contrasting Mentors
Mentors are not necessarily people who make you feel good about
yourself  or  tell  you  that  you  can  do  anything  you  want  to  do.
Sometimes the best mentors provide tough love by being critical
as a means of teaching. Kroger’s Dave Dillon told the story of two
contrasting mentors he had early in his career. At age twenty-
nine, he was named merchandising vice president for the Fry’s
supermarket division of the Dillon Company (prior to its acquisi-
tion by Kroger), where he served under its president and his men-
tor, Ray Rose. In spite of Dillon’s lack of merchandising experience,
Rose believed that anyone who could manage people could do
any job well.
One day Dillon got a call from Chuck Fry, the entrepreneur who
had sold his family business to the Dillon Company, inviting him to
walk through a Fry’s store with him. As they stopped in front of a soft
drink display, Fry spent a long time questioning Dillon about what
he saw. “He made sure I realized I was not observing what was hap-
pening  in  the  store  and  that  I  had  missed  the  whole  point.  He
explained that the display had not been built with the customer in
mind, but was based on maximizing the vendor’s profits.”
Years later, Dillon learned that the real purpose of Fry’s visit was
to decide whether or not young Dave would be willing to learn from
him as a teacher and mentor. If he wasn’t, Fry planned to have him
pulled out of his job. Every day for the next year, Dillon and Fry
spent an hour a day together, in person or on the phone.
Looking back, I realize I was failing terribly as merchandising VP, but
didn’t even recognize it. I also learned that Ray Rose was wrong about
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM125
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 125

this point. You can’t take people who know how to manage people, put
them into a totally foreign job, and expect them to perform. You have to
teach them the leverage points of that job, not just the things you read in a
book. It was a very valuable lesson. Without Chuck, I would not be suc-
cessful in the grocery business.
Dillon’s story illustrates the importance of having mentors who
challenge rather than just support you. Too many leaders prefer
mentors  who  are  always  there  for  them  but  don’t  push  them  to
change or improve. As a mentor, it is relatively easy to be a good lis-
tener  and  support  other  people’s  ideas  but  harder  and  riskier  to
point out their weaknesses and blind spots.
Close Friends: 
Growing Redwood Trees
Having a close network of friends on whom they can call when in
doubt or in need of help has proven to be extremely important for
many authentic leaders. Close friendships are built over years of
shared experiences, with each person having a genuine apprecia-
tion  for  the  other.  Most  have  no  more  than  a  handful  of  close
friends, but they stay in regular contact with them. DaVita CEO
Kent Thiry uses redwood trees as a metaphor for the way to develop
close relationships. “Redwood trees are the tallest, strongest, longest-
living tree in the forest. How do you get a tall, strong, long-lived
redwood tree? It takes time.”
After  college,  Thiry  worked  hard  to  maintain  close  contact
with  a  handful  of  friends,  traveling  to  see  them  and  organizing
reunions throughout the year. He is systematic in maintaining his
friendships, using a spreadsheet to keep track of how many high-
quality interactions he has had with each friend throughout the
year. He also lets them know how much their friendship means to
him. “You can start to grow another tree, but it’s going to take ten
years  or  more.  Wouldn’t  it  be  a  crime  to  cut  a  tree  down  just
because you were tired of it?”
126TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 126

Close friends provide reinforcement when leaders feel discour-
aged and need a boost. They shake them from blind overconfidence
when they are arrogant. It is often by sharing vulnerabilities that
their friendships deepen, because openness is the sine qua non for
cultivating relationships. Like mentoring, friendship is a two-way
street where both parties benefit from the relationship. If it devolves
into a situation where one person is doing all the giving and the
other all the receiving, the friendship will not last for long.
When people grow together through various phases of life, they
develop a deeper understanding of each other. Having been through
it all together, close friends notice the little things, like when you
need a kick, even when no one else can see that. They can sense
when you are getting off track and are not afraid to tell you.
Traditions  help  create  lasting  friendships.  Chris  O’Connell,
president of Medtronic Emergency Response Systems, has a group
of seven classmates from business school who are among his closest
friends. “Once a year, we get together for four days on a retreat. In
the twelve years since we’ve been out of school, not one person has
missed a single year. We probably spend more time planning and
getting excited about the next trip than being on the trip itself. We
will go to our graves doing this every year.”
Many leaders prefer to build their close relationships outside
their organizations and business circles. Jack Brennan, Vanguard’s
CEO, is close friends with doctors and lawyers who have no inter-
est in his business. “It is nourishing to have close friends outside my
professional circle.”
It is during the most turbulent moments of their lives that lead-
ers find out who their real friends are. Donna Dubinsky noted, “I
was a ‘paper billionaire’ before the bubble burst in 2001, and people
started running after me like crazy to be my friend. When much of
this paper fortune disappeared, those people all left, but my real
friends remained.”
When Richard Tait reached his lowest point, he desperately
needed a close friend. Before founding the board-game com-
pany Cranium, Tait had been one of Microsoft’s stars, selected
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM127
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 127

as “Employee of the Year” in 1994. After ten years of eighty-hour
weeks, he was burned out and decided to quit in his early thirties.
He recalled, “I got to the point where I was lost. I knew that it was
better for me to leave.”
For several months, Tait shuffled around his house, trying to
think of entrepreneurial ideas. “That was a very dark period. I was
so depressed that I spent my days in the basement in my jammies.
The only reason I got dressed was to greet my wife coming home
from work.”
During that period Tait’s friend Bruno, whom he had known
when they worked together at Microsoft, came to his house for
long conversations. “He’s one of my most trusted friends. He has
been my gladiator three times in my life,” said Tait. “I can be com-
pletely  vulnerable  with  him.  Bruno  gave  me  confidence  and
enabled  me  to  be  true  to  myself.  He  always  said,  ‘You’ll  have
another idea.’ After six months, the idea for the board game Cra-
nium finally came to me.”
Your Personal Support Group
Personal support groups are one of the most powerful ways of gain-
ing wisdom and advice that will help you grow as a leader. The
most effective groups are made up of peers who meet on a regular
basis and talk about what is important in their lives. Some struc-
ture can help immeasurably to ensure that the conversation does
not degenerate into casual talk about current events. Instead, a
carefully  conceived  structure  causes  members  of  the  group  to
probe  their  beliefs  and  relationships  and  to  describe  the  chal-
lenges they face.
In preparing for the unexpected in life, Warren Bennis tells
leaders, “Have some group that will tell you the truth and to whom
you can tell the truth.”
If you have people like that around you, what else matters? You’re never
going to be prepared for 9/11, nor can you figure out what’s going to hap-
128TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 128

pen. All you can do is make sure there’s some way of understanding real-
ity beyond what you know yourself.
In 1974 I joined a men’s group that formed after a weekend
retreat in which we all participated. More than thirty years later, we
are still meeting every Wednesday morning for seventy-five minutes
before the workday begins. After an opening period of catching up
on each other’s lives and dealing with any particular difficulty some-
one may be facing, one of the group’s eight members leads a discus-
sion based on a topic he has selected, such as the legacies we want
to leave behind. These discussions are open, probing, and often pro-
found. The key to their success is what we call “honest conversa-
tions,” saying what you really believe without fear of judgment,
criticism, or reprisal.
Over the years, we have developed shared life histories as mem-
bers  of  the  group  have  gone  through  the  birth  of  children  and
grandchildren, divorce, promotion and job loss, life-threatening ill-
ness, and even death. Occasionally, the group goes on a retreat or
gets together socially with our spouses, but the essence of the group
is the Wednesday morning meeting. We all consider that the group
has been one of the most important aspects of our lives, enabling us
to clarify our beliefs, values, and understanding of vital issues, as
well as providing a source of honest feedback when we need it most.
Piper Jaffray’s Tad Piper is a member of three groups that have
been essential during the difficult times of his life. He noted,
If you had told me twenty years ago that I would be part of three groups
that meet regularly and talk about things like feelings and God, I would
have said, “Thank you, but I don’t do groups.” Now they are incredibly
important parts of my life. I look forward to being there, because they help
fill me up as a person.
Fifteen years ago, Piper went through treatment for chemical
dependency and afterward joined an Alcoholics Anonymous
group. He noted, “These are not CEOs.”
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM129
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 129

They are just a group of nice, hard-working people who are trying to stay
sober, lead good lives, and work with each other about being open, hon-
est, and vulnerable. We reinforce each other’s behavior by talking about
our  chemical  dependency  in  a  disciplined  way  as  we  go  through  the
twelve steps. I feel blessed to be surrounded by people who are thinking
about those kinds of issues and actually doing something, not just talking
about them.
Not many of us will be as fortunate as Piper to have three regu-
lar groups in our lives, but wouldn’t it be great if we could all have
one? Having a small group of people that you share with confiden-
tially on a regular basis is an invaluable way to stay grounded and to
get advice and support when you need it most.
Creating a Professional Support Network
Many  leaders  develop  professional  peer  networks  both  within
and outside their organizations to consult with them about impor-
tant issues and to provide counsel and guidance. eBay’s Donahoe
noted, “You can learn a little bit from a lot of people.” Rob Chess,
chairman of Nektar Therapeutics, commented, “If someone does
something very well, I try to understand how I can apply it to
my work.”
Some leaders mentioned the value of their involvement with
executive roundtable groups and professional organizations like the
Young  Presidents’  Organization  (YPO).  YPO  provides  a  forum
where members can talk openly about their challenges and a net-
work to exchange ideas and learn from each other.
Having a peer support structure within your organization can be
invaluable, because colleagues may be facing comparable experi-
ences, have insights about things you do not see, or be in a position
to offer you real-time feedback on your leadership. Because being
on top of an organization can be lonely and isolating, some leaders
use their subordinates as an advisory network, even in the most dif-
ficult business circumstances.
130TRUE NORTH
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 130

Your Personal Board of Directors
CEOs look to members of their board of directors for advice at cru-
cial points, so why not have your own personalboard of directors?
Your board might include several highly trusted personal and pro-
fessional advisers, people you respect for their professional exper-
tise,  insights,  and  wisdom,  and  for  their  commitment  to  your
personal well-being. Your team can also include close friends, men-
tors, your lawyer, financial planner, or personal coach. You can meet
with them for counsel and advice on a regular basis or when you are
facing especially difficult decisions.
Your journey to leadership is likely to take many unexpected
turns. Life is full of challenging situations, including ethical dilem-
mas, midcourse career changes or burnout, seemingly intractable
interpersonal challenges with colleagues, marriage and family issues,
failures, and loneliness. At times you may feel you are losing your
way or have gotten off the course of your True North.
Getting back on track alone is very difficult. That is when you
most need your support team. It is important to build your team
long before there is a crisis in your life, because that assures you that
people will be available to help when you need them most.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Eight, you may want
to complete the Chapter Seven Exercise found in Appendix C.
BUILDING YOUR SUPPORT TEAM131
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
Support
Team
Support
Team
c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 131

c07.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 132

133
8
STAYING GROUNDED:
INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE
The world will shape you if you let it. 
To have a sense of yourself as you live, 
you must make conscious choices.
—John Donahoe, president, eBay
On a tranquil Boston evening in the fall of 1983, eBay’s John Don-
ahoe, then an energetic twenty-three-year-old, enjoyed a relaxing
dinner with his fiancée, Eileen. Just a year out of college, Donahoe
had already earned an excellent reputation as a consulting analyst
at Bain. His eyes lit up as he talked about his career prospects.
NW
NE
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
Purpose for
Leadership
True
North
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 133

As dinner wore on, Eileen became more concerned about the
toll  John’s  career  could  take  on  his  life.  She  expressed  concern
about how the long hours, constant travel, and stress might limit his
ability to have close relationships. Then she asked him pointedly,
“Is that really what you want in life?” John answered adamantly,
“No!” He reached into his wallet to find a piece of paper and wrote
on the back of a Shawmut Bank receipt, “I will not live the life of a
management consultant,” and signed his name. John recalled, “Her
challenge to me was, ‘Be who you are.’ ”
As Donahoe rose through the ranks to become worldwide man-
aging director at Bain, he worked hard at leading an authentic life.
“My ultimate goal is to have an impact and be an authentic busi-
nessperson,  as  well  as  the  kind  of  father,  husband,  friend,  and
human being I want to be. The human-being side is the highest
goal and the ultimate challenge.”
For authentic leaders, being true to themselves by being the
same person at work that they are at home is a constant test, yet
personal fulfillment is their ultimate reward. According to Dona-
hoe, “Leading a satisfying life is a quest worth taking.” Donahoe
feels strongly that integrating his life has enabled him to become a
more effective leader. “There is no nirvana,” he said.
The struggle is constant, as the trade-offs and choices don’t get any easier
as you get older. My personal and professional lives are not a zero-sum
trade-off. I have no doubt today that my children have made me a far
more effective leader in the workplace. Having a strong personal life has
made the difference.
Integrating their lives is one of the greatest challenges leaders face.
To lead an integrated life,you need to bring together the major ele-
ments of your personal life and professional life, including work, fam-
ily, community, and friends, so that you can be the same person in
each environment. Donahoe stressed that being authentic takes con-
tinuous effort. “The challenge of maintaining authenticity, a sense of
self, of learning and growing, is the same no matter where you are.”
134TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 134

Authentic leaders are constantly aware of the importance of
staying grounded. In doing so, they avoid getting too cocky during
the high points and forgetting who they are during the low points.
Spending time with their families and close friends, getting physi-
cal exercise, having spiritual practices, doing community service,
and returning to places where they grew up are all ways they stay
grounded. This grounding is essential to their effectiveness as lead-
ers, because it enables them to preserve their authenticity.
“The world can shape you if you let it. To have a sense of yourself
as you live, you must make conscious choices,” said Donahoe. “Some-
times the choices are really hard, and you make a lot of mistakes.”
One of his first big decisions came during his first year at business
school. The first term was the most intense academic experience of
his life. On the eve of finals, Eileen went into labor with their first
child. When Donahoe asked himself what was more important, the
birth of his child or his grades, the answer became obvious.
Having achieved in every academic environment he had been
in, he had to let go of his desire to get top grades. “In a strange way,
I had an excuse for not doing well. I had to accept the fact that I
was not going to get straight A’s.” As finals approached, Donahoe
spent more and more time with Eileen. As his colleagues became
increasingly stressed, he felt oddly relaxed.
Much to his surprise, Donahoe earned the highest grades possi-
ble that quarter. “It was only because I had a bit of perspective.
I certainly was not the smartest person in the room,” he said. “I
remember watching the inefficiency that kicked in when people
stressed out.” That experience showed him that life could be his
friend.
A few years later, Donahoe faced another difficult set of choices
that  confirmed  his  belief  that  he  could  integrate  his  life  in  an
authentic way. After graduating from law school, Eileen received an
offer to clerk for a federal judge, but the job required her to be at
work by 7:30
A.M., and John’s job required him to travel exten-
sively. John had no alternative but to take their two kids to
school every day.
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE135
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 135

Donahoe went to Tom Tierney, managing director of Bain’s San
Francisco office, and told him that he had no choice except to quit.
Tierney just laughed and said, “John, we can find a way to work
around this.” He reassigned Donahoe to a local client, enabling him
to take his kids to school before arriving at the client site.
Donahoe was amazed that his clients appreciated the choices he
was making. He told his client honestly, “It is important to me to be
doing this. It’s not that I’m not committed to working hard, but I
can’t be there before 10A.M.”
The client responded positively as he appreciated my commitment and my
contribution even more. I’m not sure I had the courage to think about it
that way before. There’s an inclination in business to put on a tough exte-
rior to give the impression that you have everything under control. This
was a defining year for me.
Donahoe also learned that the more he integrated his life and
embraced his humanity, the more effective he became as a leader.
“That was my best year of client work. Our client understood, and I
became more relaxed,” he recalled. By showing his team and clients
his vulnerabilities, he discovered that the teams performed better
and his client relationships strengthened.
The following year he was named head of Bain’s San Francisco
office. After six years in that role, he felt burned out by the fast-
paced life and wanted to spend more time with his two oldest sons
before they became teenagers. So he handed off his work to his col-
leagues and took a three-month sabbatical. “It was the right time
for  repotting,  and  an  opportunity  to  bring  our  family  closer
together.” First, the family went to Europe, and then Donahoe took
separate weeklong trips with his wife and each of his four children.
He returned to Bain reenergized and a year later was named
worldwide managing director, succeeding Tierney. The announce-
ment came just as the economy was plummeting. At the same time,
a family health issue with one of his children arose that tested him
as never before. “The health issue emerged soon after I became
136TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 136

managing  director,  and  just  as  the  consulting  industry  faced  its
biggest downturn in thirty years.”
It was the hardest thing I’ve ever had to work through in my life. My fam-
ily, friends, coaches, and colleagues were unbelievably helpful. Real life
forced me to bring a sense of authenticity and vulnerability to the work-
place, because life humbles you.
Sharing his personal situation openly helped him connect with
his partners so they could rally during the downturn. By accept-
ing his vulnerabilities, Donahoe was able to maintain an even keel.
“I had faith in our people. We could talk about where we were going
and how we were going to make it happen.” He believes he was
effective precisely because he was able to integrate his personal and
professional lives during the stressful circumstances. “Because much
of my emotional energy was going to my family, I didn’t take the
downturn personally. As a result, I was more effective as a leader.
My legacy to Bain partners will probably be the way I led us through
the downturn.”
Although twenty years have passed since their conversation
that night in Boston, Eileen Donahoe has not forgotten the signed
Shawmut Bank slip. “I still keep it inside my purse,” she says. “I’ve
brought it out many times over the years.” The Donahoes have suc-
cessfully weathered challenging stages of their lives and continue to
strive for an authentic life together. Their partnership serves as an
excellent example of not only how to be intentional in building
meaningful lives but how rewarding it can be.
Making Choices and Trade-Offs
Warren Bennis does not like the word balance.“Balanceis an engi-
neering term that means you put the little weights on each side, and
if you’re really a good person, you’ll come out equal. We have to
be aware that we swing back and forth. It is choices all the
time, not balance.”
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE137
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 137

Without realizing it, we make hundreds of choices every day,
many of them subconscious or intuitive, and try to learn from those
that turn out to be mistakes. Ultimately, our life stories become an
expression of the choices we make.Young & Rubicam’s Ann Fudge
emphasized  the  importance  of  people  making  choices  based  on
what you value and according to what is important to you.
The most important thing is to put aside the immediate impact of our
choices and ask, “What am I going to contribute? What can I learn?” I
don’t know how much time I have. I hope to go to my grave having no
regrets.
When leaders talked about their crucibles, they said those expe-
riences forced them to ask themselves, “What is important to me in
life?”  Asking  that  question  allows  leaders  to  make  conscious
choices. Xerox’s Anne Mulcahy said, “I like to work hard and have
a serious career, but the most important thing to me in my life is my
family. I love Xerox and I’d kill for it, but it is not even on the same
scale as my family. As a family, we made a lot of choices. It is all
about trade-offs.”
She and her husband, a thirty-six-year Xerox veteran who trav-
eled a great deal himself, decided that one of them would be at
home with their kids every night. They also decided they would not
move. So they commuted, even when their jobs required them to
travel  great  distances.  “To  be  CEO  of  Xerox,  and  never  having
moved, is quite extraordinary, but it’s doable. At Xerox we expect
people to put their families first. Unacceptable trade-offs should not
be part of the work environment.”
Twenty-three-year-old David Darst, one of the youngest leaders
interviewed, has worked incredibly hard in founding both a for-
profit  company  and  a  nonprofit  start-up.  He  makes  a  conscious
effort to bring fun into his work, taking time for exercise, listening
to  music  to  alleviate  stress,  and  seeking  interactions  with  close
friends. It is not easy. “I would sacrifice these things only for an
opportunity I am truly passionate about,” he explained.
138TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 138

Dermot Dunphy, retired CEO of Sealed Air, has worried about
the impact of personal and family problems on the ability to lead
at work.  Although  most  people  try  to  separate  these  areas,  it  is
inevitable that problems in one area will impact performance in the
other. Dunphy noted, “There’s no doubt in my mind that a happy
personal life is a valuable facilitator for balanced leadership.”
The Buckets of Your Life
Many leaders think about integration in terms of bringing the major
parts of their lives together: family, work, friends and community,
and personal time. Phil McCrea, founder and former CEO of Vitesse
Learning,  said,  “I  have  four  buckets  representing  the  important
areas of my life.”
One is my career. The second is my family. The third is my community
and personal friendships, and fourth is the personal activities I enjoy.
The third and the fourth are very removed for me right now. This is not
frustrating for me because I’m tremendously fulfilled by the first two
today. By age forty, I’d like to be in a position where I have a better abil-
ity to fill buckets three and four—community, friendships, and personal
activities. Long term, I will not continue to pursue the career I’m in if it
leaves a void.
McCrea and his wife, Annika, who has a promising career her-
self as a consultant, made the difficult decision to plunge ahead with
starting a company just as they were starting their family. Living in
San Francisco, McCrea soon found that he was traveling coast-to-
coast virtually every week because his software programmers were
based in California and his customers—primarily large pharmaceu-
tical companies—were on the East Coast. Eventually, he was faced
with a stark choice: give up his family life or move his family to
New Jersey to be close to his customers. They chose the latter
route,  as  Annika  was  able  to  convince  her  company  to
transfer her to its Connecticut headquarters. Thus far, the
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE139
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 139

relocation has worked well; the travel demands have not gone away
but have shrunk in duration.
Leadership can require significant sacrifices, especially during
intense  periods,  when  certain  buckets  get  less  time.  Former
AT&T executive Gail McGovern framed it concisely. “A lot of
people ask if it is possible to have a rich personal life and a great
work life. I say unequivocally, it is entirely possible. You just have
to recognize you can’t give 110 percent to everything. There are
many mundane things in your life you have to let go of and not
feel guilty about.”
140TRUE NORTH
Figure 8.1  Integrating Your Life
Integration
of
 Your Life
Family
Life
Personal
Life
Community
and
Friends
Professional
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 140

To ease the pressures, McGovern hires people to help with child
care and does not worry if her house isn’t perfectly clean or if video
rentals are overdue. “If you realize you can’t be super housewife,
super career person, super mom, and super wife, there is absolutely
no reason why you cannot have it all,” she concludes.
Staying Grounded by 
Integrating Your Life
To integrate your life, you must remain grounded in your authentic
self, especially when the outside world is chaotic. Well-grounded
leaders have a steady and confident presence. They do not show up
as one person one day and another person the next. Integration
takes discipline, particularly during stressful times when it is easy to
become reactive and slip into bad habits.
Leading is high-stress work. There is no way to avoid stress when
you are responsible for people, organizations, outcomes, and the con-
stant  uncertainties  of  the  environment.  The  higher  you  go,  the
greater your freedom to control your destiny but also the higher the
level of stress. The question is not whether you can avoid stress but
how you can control it to maintain your own sense of equilibrium.
As a former colleague used to say, “The state of zero stress is death.”
When Medtronic’s Chris O’Connell gets stressed, he says, “I
can feel myself slipping into a negative frame of mind. When I’m at
my best, I’m very positive and feel I can accomplish anything, both
at work and home.” When O’Connell’s frame of mind  becomes
negative, “I  lose effectiveness as a  leader and  become even less
effective at home. Both positive and negative emotions carry over
between work and home.”
Amid the turmoil, it is important to maintain your perspective.
To keep his perspective, Belkin Corporation’s Mark Reynoso imag-
ines a simple analogy: “If I have a hundred balls coming at me and
can grab only two,  I can stress out about missing ninety-eight
balls or accept the reality I can grab only two—and make
sure they are the most important ones.”
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE141
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 141

Your Family
Avon Products CEO Andrea Jung recalled the morning she was
anxious to get to work because she was being named Boss of the
Year. When she told her son to hurry up, he looked at her and said,
“You are not the boss of me.” She explained, “Here I was going to
speak in front of three thousand people who thought I was boss, but
I was forced to acknowledge I had zero control over my own child.”
Family grounds you, no matter who you are. Warner Brothers’
Alan  Horn  makes  the  final  decision  about  which  of  twenty-five
movies the company will produce every year, a job that puts him on
Entertainment Weekly’s Executive Power List. Every holiday he gets
cards and gifts from the megastars. Unlike most Hollywood produc-
ers, who routinely display pictures of themselves with Tom Cruise,
Julia Roberts, or Brad Pitt, Horn has few traces of Hollywood in his
office. Instead, pictures of his family members are everywhere.
Horn pointed to his desk chair and said, “The moment some-
one else takes that chair, all that glamour is gone. These people
move on to the next person, but my kids won’t move on.” Horn
then paused and with obvious emotion said, “My father was just a
bartender, but he’s still the most important person to me.”
Fadi Ghandour, founder and CEO of Aramex International, is
a well-respected Middle East businessman who takes his sons on
annual scuba diving trips. Ghandour started the tradition because
he did not see his own father often enough when he was growing
up. “It was a conscious effort on my part,” he said. “It’s a great way
for me to connect with my kids and is the most relaxing and enjoy-
able time for me.”
Kris Johnson: You Cannot Do It All. With the rise in two-
career  marriages,  younger  leaders  wrestle  with  questions  of  life
choices and integration more than previous generations did. There
is never enough time for two full-time careers and raising a family
with young children as well as for personal time and community
involvement.
142TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 142

Kris Johnson was a rising star at Medtronic who took the com-
pany’s external relations and business strategy to new levels of sophis-
tication in the 1980s. Then in the 1990s she built the company’s
implantable defibrillators into a $3 billion business. She and her hus-
band, Rob, one of Cargill’s top executives, shared the parenting of the
couple’s two daughters, with Kris carrying more of the emotional
load. Kris loyally attended her daughters’ sporting events and fre-
quently took them along on trips to out-of-town company meetings.
Kris and Rob were not afraid to get outside help to ease their
busy schedules. She recalled the advice of a mentor who told her,
“You ought to pay somebody to do whatever you don’t want to do.
You’ve got enough money. Use it to buy time.” Johnson was embar-
rassed to tell her mother she needed help but soon found that the
change was necessary. Eventually, she became comfortable with not
being able to do it all.
After being promoted to run Medtronic’s global vascular busi-
ness, Johnson found she was spending too much time away from her
family on grueling international trips. At first, she tried returning to
the more stable life of the Medtronic corporate staff but eventually
realized a major change was required to give her greater control
over her schedule and more time with her teenage daughters.
At this point she left Medtronic to become a partner in a mid-
sized venture capital company focused on health care. Her new job
gave her the freedom to find the proper balance between her work
and her family. Just a few years later, an unexpected health crisis
brought home to her that she had made the right decision. “Oppor-
tunities to be with your daughters at the most important events or
to visit them at college don’t come around again if you pass them
up,” she said.
Kris Johnson’s story illustrates that you can have it all but not
all at once. As two active executives, Kris and Rob made conscious
decisions about their family and their careers to ensure that they
were there for their daughters during the vital growing-up years
while continuing to pursue active and successful leadership
roles in business and in nonprofit organizations.
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE143
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 143

Staying True to Your Roots
Returning to where you came from is another important way to stay
grounded. Just as Howard Schultz goes back to Brooklyn from time
to time, Bill Campbell stays in regular contact with his old friends
in Homestead, Pennsylvania, which helps keep perspective on life in
Silicon Valley. Akshata Murthy, who grew up in Bangalore as the
daughter of Infosys CEO Narayana Murthy, returns to India regu-
larly to see her old friends and extended family. She is committed
to making an impact there someday.
To restore themselves and their sense of perspective, many have
a special place they can go with their families on weekends and
vacations. For decades, former Secretary of State George Shultz and
his wife went to an old family farm they own in Massachusetts. “I
once told the president, ‘This is my Camp David.’ When I go there,
I put on an old pair of pants and shoes I have worn for a long time. I
am so relaxed I don’t worry about anything.”
Finding Time for Yourself
To manage the stress created by our leadership roles, we need per-
sonal time to relieve the tension. Some people practice meditation
or yoga to center themselves and relieve anxiety. Others find solace
in prayer. Some people find they can release tension by jogging at
the end of a long workday. Still others find relief through laughing
with  friends,  listening  to  music,  watching  television,  attending
sporting events, reading, or going to movies.
It does not matter whatyou do, as long as you establish a routine
that enables you to manage the stress in your life and gives you time
to think clearly about life, work, and your personal issues. It is crit-
ical  to  avoid  abandoning  these  routines  when  you  are  going
through an especially busy or difficult period, because that is pre-
cisely when you need your stress reduction techniques to kick in.
Buzz McCoy, who led Morgan Stanley’s real estate division,
coped with the stress of his job by running nearly every day. “My
144TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 144

relief came through physical activity to burn off the edge. I knew I
had to be in shape physically because I’d fly at night.”
Warner  Brothers’  Alan  Horn  wakes  up  each  morning  at  six
o’clock to exercise; if he misses one day, he goes for two hours the
next. When John Morgridge was CEO of Cisco, he also went jog-
ging at 6A.M. because, as he said, “In the technology industry, you
have to get going early. I could just throw my running shoes into my
bag wherever I was traveling.”
Spiritual and Religious Practices
Understanding  our  role  in  the  world  by  asking  questions  like
“What  is  the  meaning  and  purpose  of  my  life?”  or  “Why  am  I
here?” is the most personal and profound area of our leadership
development. Many leaders have an active religious or spiritual
practice to engage these issues, either privately or with like-minded
people. Some seek the answers through a process of introspection.
Others explore them through discussions with the people closest
to them.
Authentic leaders who are religious talked about the power of
prayer, being a part of church groups, and finding solace at church.
Commenting on his faith, Vitesse Learning’s Phil McCrea said, “I
take the kids to church every Sunday, which is rewarding and ful-
filling. In addition to the religious aspect, there is also a meditative
aspect.  While  sitting  in  the  church  pew,  I  have  a  solid  hour  of
reflective time.”
Venture capitalist Denise O’Leary, who sits on several prestigious
corporate boards, listens to Gregorian chants at a local church, while
her husband, DaVita CEO Kent Thiry, reads Buddhist texts to cen-
ter himself. She explained, “This is the place where I find real solace.
I remember loving this style of music as a child. It is my meditation
as it allows me to be introspective.” Debra Dunn, who used to do
yoga in her office on executive row at Hewlett-Packard, finds
renewal in nature. “I realized that I needed to get out of Sil-
icon Valley in order to get centered.”
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE145
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 145

Taking Sabbaticals
Taking  sabbaticals  is  another  way  in  which  authentic  leaders
ground themselves. John Donahoe’s sabbatical lasted three months.
Brenda Barnes was away from the workplace for several years to
focus on her family before she returned to the corporate world as
president of Sara Lee. Many other leaders, such as Joe Rogers Jr.,
also took sabbaticals.
Rogers did not take long to become CEO. At twenty-six he was
put  in  charge  of  Waffle  House,  a  chain  of  breakfast  restaurants
owned by his family. After early success in his new role, relation-
ships with his people grew strained as he tried to change the firm’s
direction. He explained, “By the end of the 1970s, I was fed up. A
lot of people were opposing what I was trying to get done. Finally, I
just threw up my hands and asked myself, ‘Do I want to keep beat-
ing my head against this wall?’ ”
Rogers took a six-month sabbatical and went to Solana Beach
outside San Diego. He lived on the beach for six months, ran every
day, and learned to surf while he thought about his options. “Finally,
I said to myself, ‘Is this really my people’s fault? Maybe I’m the prob-
lem. I may have the right ideas, but I’m not providing the right
leadership.’ ”
He returned to the business and unveiled a new corporate strat-
egy. He told his team, “We’re stopping the growth and committing
to quality first. It’s no longer bigger and better. It’s better before big-
ger. If we don’t get better, we haven’t earned the right to get bigger.”
Rogers’s organization quickly solidified around the new strategy as
Waffle House was transformed into a success story that has been sus-
tained for thirty years.
Friends and Community
Genuine friends—those we can count on in good times and bad—
are an invaluable resource in helping us stay grounded. They are
always willing to provide candid feedback, constructive criticism
146TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 146

when appropriate, and encouragement when most needed. Some of
Howard Schultz’s closest friendships are those he made during col-
lege and in his twenties. He says, “There is a core group of people
you meet in life who are your friends because your relationships
really matter, not because of who you are or what you have done. It
is important to stay close to those people because your relationships
with them ground you and keep you humble.”
Being in direct contact with those who are less fortunate also
provides leaders with an invaluable perspective about who they are
and what is happening in the world around them. Lisa Dawe, a
regional operations director with DaVita, emphasized that human
interactions in an AIDS hospice helped her stay in touch with real-
ity. “In the rush of day-to-day leadership responsibilities, I risk los-
ing perspective on my core motivation.”
It  is  crucial  to  connect  with  people  one-on-one,  not  just  to  create  a
fundraising plan. Being in touch with AIDS victims enabled me to feel
human. I sat by the bedsides and watched, one by one, as people died.
That helped me understand what I’m going to do when I get to that point
and provided perspective on how fortunate I am. It helped me get to the
core of what it means to be human.
Measuring Success
Have you defined what success means for you and for your life?
Unless you have thought through the answer to that question, you
are at risk of letting others define success for you or trying to keep
up with their definitions of success. Only when you can define what
is most important in your life can you set the right priorities for your
life and become an integrated leader.
The specific choices will differ for each of us. John Donahoe
developed his own scorecard to measure his success. His criteria are
the number of lives he can influence while being the type of hus-
band, father, friend, and person he would like to be. Dermot
Dunphy of Sealed Air encourages entrepreneurs to start off
STAYING GROUNDED: INTEGRATING YOUR LIFE147
NW
N
E
Values and
Principles
Motivations
Self-  
Awareness
SW
S
E
Integrated
Life
Support
Team
SW
Integrated
Life
Integrated
Life
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 147

by defining their personal standards of success. “I use three points to
define success,” he says.
The most important is to love and be loved. The second is to be respected.
The third is to possess a sense of honor. It’s how you feel about yourself
early in the morning when you get up and look at yourself in the mirror.
Living with Integrity
What does it mean to live your life with integrity? Real integrity
results from integrating all aspects of your life so that you are true to
yourself in all settings. Think of your life like a house, with a bed-
room for your personal life, a study for your professional life, a fam-
ily  room  for  your  family,  and  a  living  room  to  share  with  your
friends. Can you knock down the walls between these rooms and be
the same person in each of them?
When you can act the same in each setting, you are well on your
way to living your life with genuine integrity. Living that way, you
will be an authentic leader who leads a fulfilling life.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Part Three and Chapter Nine,
you may want to complete the Chapter Eight Exercise found in Appen-
dix C.
148TRUE NORTH
c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 148

c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 149

c08.qxp  1/17/07  8:33 PM  Page 150

Part Three
Empowering People to Lead
Having  focused  on  how  leaders  discover  their  True  North,  let’s
explore the ways authentic leaders empower people through their
leadership. The crucial first step is to find the purpose of their lead-
ership by reframing their life stories and following their passions.
Then they are prepared to inspire others to step up and lead around
a common purpose and shared values.
To optimize their effectiveness, leaders build their influence by
honing their style and making authentic use of their power to gen-
erate superior performance from their teammates. Superior results
build the reputations of authentic leaders and their teammates and
earn them added responsibility and resources. Through the rein-
forcement of the effectiveness of authentic leadership, the virtuous
circle is completed and others are encouraged to become authentic
leaders and join in the shared purpose.
p03.qxp  1/17/07  9:30 PM  Page 151

152TRUE NORTH
The Effectiveness of Authentic Leaders
Build
Reputation
and Gain
Responsibility
Build
Influence
Through Style
and Power
Authentic
Leadership
Shared
Purpose
Empower
Other Leaders
Achieve
Results
p03.qxp  1/17/07  9:30 PM  Page 152

153
9
LEADERSHIP WITH
PURPOSE AND PASSION
Tell me, what is it you plan to do
with your one wild and precious life?
—“The Summer Day,” by Mary Oliver
In 1998 Andrea Jung was facing the most difficult decision of her
long and successful career. Four years after joining Avon Products,
she had just been passed over for promotion to CEO in favor of one
of the company’s outside board members. “I had an offer to become
CEO at another company, but Ann Moore, CEO of Time, Inc. and
NW
NE
Values and
Principles
Self-
Awareness
SW
SE
Motivations
Integrated
Life
Support
Te a m
True
North
Purpose for
Leadership
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 153

an Avon board member, advised me to stay,” she recalled. “She told
me, ‘Follow your compass and not your clock.’ ”
I had fallen in love with what Avon does. I realized I would prefer to be
number two in a company with this impact on society than to be number
one in another company without it. If you don’t love your work, it is too
great a sacrifice.
Jung decided to stay, becoming president of Avon and a board
member. The decision changed her life. Just twenty months later,
the new CEO retired, and Jung was named his successor in Novem-
ber 1999, becoming Avon’s first female CEO. Reflecting on her
decision, she notes, “If people can’t tell that I love this company, it’s
hard to be a lasting leader.”
Passion is such an important quality. The infectiousness of your leadership
must be apparent to the people, or you can’t charge forward. If you don’t
love it, you can’t fake it.
Jung  is  a  leader  who  has  found  her  passion  and  fulfilled  it
through the company she leads. From the time she joined the firm,
she saw Avon as not just a cosmetics company but an organization
that improved women’s lives, both in the company and around the
world. Soon after Jung became CEO, Avon adopted a new vision
statement, “TheCompany for Women.” This mission, which was
aligned with Avon’s business model, provided clarity of direction
throughout the company. Jung explained:
We wanted a catalyst for a fast, clear, and universal understanding of this
mission. What we do is to elevate women in the community. It is pur-
poseful work. We create commerce that can better their families’ lives,
particularly in emerging markets.
What is the purpose of yourleadership? Are you following the True
North of your compass or the timetable of your clock? Do you under-
154TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 154

stand your passion for leading, as Andrea Jung does? These questions
are not easy to answer. For some of us, it takes many years to find the
purpose of our leadership—and the right place to devote our passions.
If  you  examine  your  True  North  again,  you  will  find  that  it
points the way to the purpose of your leadership—the difference
you make in the world and the legacy you leave behind. When you
understand your purpose, you are ready to find an organization—or
to create one—where you can fulfill your purpose.
Even for a gifted and passionate leader like Andrea Jung, find-
ing her purpose wasn’t easy. She was born in Toronto to a family of
Chinese  immigrants  who  valued  education,  perseverance,  hard
work, and humility above all else. Her father was an architect, and
her mother was the first female chemical engineering graduate of
the University of Toronto. Her parents instilled in her the sense she
could accomplish anything.
Jung is proud of the influence of her parents’ work ethic. “The
principles were to try and give back, improve, teach, and make
things better,” she explained.
You just don’t give up on anything. I can remember being at the piano for
fifty-two minutes when my parents would say, “It is sixty minutes. You
do not get up yet.” The last eight minutes are important. Achievement was
less about getting all A’s and more about trying.
Graduating from Princeton in three years, Jung joined Bloom-
ingdale’s management training program, where she quickly became
frustrated doing menial tasks. “I felt my education was being wasted
in a back stockroom, changing clothes from vendors’ hangers to the
store’s hangers,” she recalled. After a few months on the job she
decided to resign, as did three-quarters of her fellow trainees, but
her parents told her, “You will not quit.”
If you were being mistreated, it would be different, but you’re quitting
because you don’t have the perseverance. You don’t want to get your hands
dirty. We don’t quit in this family. We persevere.
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION155
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 155

Jung stayed with the program and became one of Blooming-
dale’s youngest vice presidents, heading a department of people that
averaged twenty years older than herself. “I was only twenty-three,”
Jung said, “and it was my first tough experience.” She did not fit the
mold of the aggressive retail executive because she had been taught
to be deferential and mindful of elders and others in authority. “I
had to become more assertive,” she recalled.
No longer was I just an individual contributor. I had to be a leader now.
What I did was irrelevant. It was all about people underneath me. There
were personnel changes to be made, and a new strategy to be designed. I
followed the principles of having compassion and respect for people and to
understand and value the human spirit along with the work.
After six years with Bloomingdale’s, Jung followed her mentor to
San Francisco as senior vice president of I. Magnin and later moved
to Dallas to become executive vice president of Neiman Marcus. As
an Asian woman and single mother of a two-year-old daughter, Jung
found life in Dallas very challenging. “It was brutal,” she recalled. “I
loved the work, but there was a lot of travel and that was tough
with a young child. It was also difficult being a minority in Dallas.”
My British nanny always took my daughter, who is half-Asian, to school.
The first time I went to the school, they said to me, “We have been waiting
for a long time to meet Lauren’s nanny.” I said, “No, I’m her mother.”
While in Dallas, Jung began to feel that focusing her career on
upscale department stores selling to the high-end luxury market was
not in the real world. Although she had risen rapidly, she could not
find her passion, nor did her work relate to the family values with
which  she  had  been  raised.  She  resigned  from  Neiman  Marcus
without having another job.
Shortly thereafter, she was approached by Avon to evaluate its
entry into retail. After six weeks of study, she recommended against
retail  distribution.  When  she  presented  her  marketing  ideas  to
156TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 156

Avon CEO James Preston, he was so impressed he offered her a job
immediately.  Jung  learned  that  Preston  was  committed  to  the
advancement of women at Avon. “I noticed a picture behind his
desk,” she recalled.
It had four footprints to depict the evolution of leadership: first, the foot-
print of an ape, followed by the bare foot of a man, then a man’s wing-
tipped shoe. The fourth footprint was a woman’s high-heeled pump. This
was the early 1990s, when no women were leading companies in the For-
tune 500. I asked him, “Do you believe in that?” He said, “I imagine
Avon will be one of the first companies to have women at the top.”
Once at Avon, Jung discovered her real purpose for leading: to
empower women. Throughout its history, Avon had been a leader
in providing women with earnings opportunities as independent
sales representatives; by 1994 its ranks had grown to 1.5 million
people, 95 percent of whom were women. Jung was excited about
having a global platform so that she could help women in develop-
ing countries as well.
During  her  twelve  years  with  Avon,  Jung  has  increased  the
number of sales representatives to five million. By 2006 women
accounted for three of Avon’s nine outside directors, seven of its
seventeen senior managers, and three-quarters of its 1,400 U.S. dis-
trict sales managers. “Our business is built on the belief that your
dreams can come true, that women can do anything, and that they
can be self-sufficient and empowered,” said Jung. “To be a female
CEO of this company reflects that belief at the highest level.”
In spite of her passion for Avon, staying focused on her mission
has not been easy in the face of pressures to meet Wall Street’s
near-term expectations. After five years of rapid increase, the com-
pany’s revenue growth in 2005 slowed to 5 percent and earnings
were flat; Avon stock tumbled 30 percent. Jung responded quickly
by cutting management levels from fifteen to eight, eliminating
25 percent of the management positions, and reducing the sales
force by 6 percent.
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION157
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 157

She chose to reinvest a significant portion of the $300 million
of annual savings in reigniting the company’s growth and suspended
earnings forecasts to get shareholders to focus on the company’s
long-term prospects. By staying true to her principles, Jung garnered
full support for the changes from her employees.
“Being able to reinvent yourself personally as a leader is just as
important  as  reinventing  the  company  and  its  strategy,”  Jung
reflected.
You have to keep both fresh and relevant. Compassion, understanding of
people, and fairness are important. I feel responsible not to let the people
in the company down. There is a lot of pressure that comes with that.
When you take it to heart, it becomes your life, not just a job.
Andrea Jung is representative of the new breed of authentic
leaders who have taken over major companies since 2000. She is
passionate about the purpose of her organization and works tire-
lessly to align her employees with the company’s mission. Like all
leaders, she has to make difficult trade-offs between meeting short-
term objectives and fulfilling the mission. Jung’s leadership shone
through  when  she  faced  a  bump  in  the  road.  She  took  decisive
action without sacrificing the company’s values or its long-term
goals, demonstrating her adaptability in guiding her organization
through challenging times.
Discerning Your Passions
How do you discern your passions? For most leaders passion comes
from their life stories, as it does for Andrea Jung. By understanding
the meaning of key events in your life story and reframing them,
you can discern what your passions are. That in turn will lead you
to the purpose of your leadership.
Understanding  your  passions  is  not  as  easy  as  it  sounds.  For
some leaders, a transformative event in their lives awakens them to
seeing  what  their  passions  are.  For  others,  finding  their  passion
158TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 158

requires letting go of their security blankets and stepping back from
the expectations others have of them.
Steve  Rothschild  described  the  process  he  went  through  at
General Mills:
When  you’re  focused  on  something  professionally  for  so  long,  you’re
afraid to let go. It’s like standing inside a giant hoop. When you let go a lit-
tle bit, you do so with one arm. You’re afraid to let go with two arms and
fall out of the hoop altogether, because you could fall flat on your face. In
my case I had to let go of the hoop altogether.
A year after leaving General Mills, Rothschild was one of the
two finalists for an important CEO position. “I got a call, saying
they had chosen the other guy. Instead of feeling disappointed, I was
relieved. I realized I wasn’t interested in the job because I wasn’t
excited about returning to the business world.
My decision to start Twin Cities RISE! evolved out of the recognition that I
like solving important and meaningful problems. And here was one that
wasn’t being adequately addressed. The nature of the problem shifted from
building a business to building lives.
Having  made  the  decision  to  get  out  of  the  frying  pan  at
General Mills, Rothschild decided not to jump back into the fire.
Instead, he gave himself the time and the freedom to understand his
real passions and to recognize he wanted to work on issues that
meant something to him.
Former LucasArts CEO Randy Komisar did just the oppo-
site. Frustrated by the involvement of founder George Lucas, he
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION159
Figure 9.1  Understanding Your Passions and Purpose
Framing
Your Life
Story
Discerning
Your
Passions
Finding Your
Leadership
Purpose
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 159

abandoned his job at LucasArts to join its smaller competitor, Crys-
tal Dynamics. Komisar confesses: “My purpose for going to Crystal
was very thin. It was to re-create Lucas. Once there, I couldn’t find
my muse, my reason for being there. Coming out of Crystal, I never
wanted to live without a purpose again. I realized that without a
purpose, nothing mattered.”
When you meet Komisar, you are struck by his openness, his
willingness to be vulnerable, and his insight into himself and other
people. It is unlikely he could have come so far without facing what
is important in his life.
It is difficult to determine your passions in the abstract. Dis-
cerning them takes a combination of introspection and real-world
experiences before you can determine where you want to devote
your energies. Without that understanding, you are vulnerable to
jumping from one high-status role to another without ever finding
fulfillment.
Trammell  Crow’s  former  CEO,  Joel  Peterson,  believes  that
many people are cause-driven and don’t start out thinking about
being leaders. “They have so much passion for the cause that they
naturally become the leader. When they are pulled to something
that matters a great deal, leadership follows their passion.” Penny
George represents the kind of person Peterson is describing.
Penny George: It’s Never Too Late to Become a Leader. My
wife,  Penny,  never  thought  of  herself  as  a  leader,  nor  was  she
encouraged to become one by her parents. Quite the contrary; they
discouraged her from taking the risks that come with leading. She
became a skilled organizational psychologist, valued by her clients
for  helping  talented  individuals  realize  their  potential,  but  she
avoided organizational leadership roles, even on nonprofit boards.
In 1995 she reached the pinnacle of her academic achievements
when she received her doctorate in psychology.
Disaster struck just six months later, as she and a partner were
launching their new consulting psychology firm. She recalled, “A
day  after  a  routine  mammogram  I  returned  home  from  work  to
160TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 160

a message on my answering machine: ‘Penny, it appears you have
breast cancer. Please schedule an appointment with a surgeon.’ ”
Although  her  oncologist  told  her,  “The  goal  is  cure,”  she
went  on  an  emotional  roller-coaster,  convinced  that  she  was
going to die. She opted for a modified radical mastectomy, fol-
lowed by seven months of chemotherapy and five years of hor-
monal therapy, yet she had a constant fear that the cancer would
return. Unwilling to be passive, she experimented with many
complementary therapies. She embraced rigorous lifestyle changes
with new dietary, exercise, stress reduction, and herbal medica-
tion regimes and did psychotherapy to reframe the difficulties of
her teenage years. She found that taking responsibility for her
return to wellness was profoundly healing and restored her sense of
control.
As  part  of  her  recovery,  she  went  on  an  eleven-day  Vision
Quest in the barren Four Corners region of Colorado, including
a four-day solo fast. After her return, she decided to abandon
her practice of psychology to concentrate her energies on advanc-
ing integrative medicine. Her vision of the new medicine com-
bined the best of traditional Western medicine with complementary
therapies to treat the whole person, just as she was doing for
herself.
One day as we were driving to Colorado, she told me with deter-
mination, “We are going to change the way medicine is taught and
practiced.” From my work at Medtronic, I knew how intractable the
medical establishment was to fundamental change. I asked her, “Do
you realize the magnitude of what you’re taking on?” With tears in
her eyes, she looked at me and said, “Don’t you believe in me?” I felt
ashamed and sheepishly replied, “Of course I believe in you. I’ll do
everything I can to support you.”
Penny proposed that she run the family foundation we had cre-
ated in 1994. With the help of an exceptional foundation director,
she directed over half our giving to integrative medicine. Together
they conceived an innovative idea to bring together medical leaders
of integrative medicine with philanthropists who were funding in
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION161
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 161

the area. This led to the formation of the Bravewell Collaborative,
a group of thirty foundations that agreed to pool their funding to
support the transformation of medicine.
Although her leadership of the collaborative was acclaimed by
its  members,  she  kept  insisting,  “I  am  not  a  leader.”  Why  this
dichotomy? Rather than be the powerful out-front leader, she was
quietly leading from behind by encouraging individual members of
this peer network to step up and lead. It was her passion and vision,
coupled with the values of collaboration, that inspired the group’s
members. Her story illustrates how discovering your passion can
empower you to step up to lead, even if you do not see yourself as
a leader.
What’s the Purpose 
of Your Leadership?
Following your passions will enable you to discover the purpose of
your leadership. When you do, you are ready to make a difference
in the world.
When Baxter Healthcare’s Michelle Hooper was a child, she
had a close friend who lived on her street. One day when she was
in sixth grade, she went to her friend’s house but was met at the
door by her father. “He told me my friend was no longer allowed to
play with black children. That had a huge effect on me. It was hor-
rible.” The shock of that blatant discrimination stuck with Hooper
and provided the impetus for her leadership.
After that painful experience, she was driven to excel acade-
mically and to be somebody. “I planned to use my intellectual
capacity as a stepping stone to get ahead,” she said. Although she
had no role models in the corporate world, she decided to become
a corporate leader because she excelled at economics and business
courses.
At Baxter Healthcare, Hooper earned her first general manage-
ment opportunity: to lead the turnaround of its Canadian opera-
tions. She found the work so stressful that she broke out in hives
162TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 162

and acne. Yet, she said, “I could not quit because I was the first black
female to run an organization like that and first in my family to
move into these lofty executive ranks. I could not fail.”
As she advanced to other leadership roles at Baxter, she found
her purpose: to be a role model for people coming up and to provide
them  with  opportunities  such  as  she  had.  Hooper  believes  that
many  talented  people  never  get  the  opportunities  they  deserve
because no one recognizes their potential.
It goes back to my days when I was rejected by my friend’s father. You
have to accept people for who they are.
There are so many good people out there. All they need is an oppor-
tunity and a platform. People gave me that in my career and allowed me
to take stretch assignments to grow in ways that I would have never
dreamed.
Cranium founder Richard Tait launched his board game com-
pany to introduce games that were not win-lose but enabled every-
one to shine. “What drives me is not financial gain, recognition, or
power; it’s the letters from customers thanking us for creating these
games and the moments and memories in their lives.” Tait worries
about the entertainment choices available today, especially those
aimed at young people.
Recently I watched an eight-year-old boy play Grand Theft Auto. That kid
is being taught by the most powerful medium in the world—the television—
to shoot at cars, to steal, and to trade prostitutes to make money. His face
was so tortured and angered. When I was eight, I was outside kicking a
ball  in  the  street  and  laughing  with  my  friends  as  we  created  fantasy
worlds.
Tait’s calling is to create something more worthwhile—something
able to keep that eight-year-old boy from getting drawn into violent
games. “It takes courage and a sense of advocacy to stand up for
something that’s pure and simple,” he said.
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION163
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 163

These stories reflect both the struggle that leaders go through in
discerning their purpose and the fulfillment they feel when they
find it and can share it with others. Ann Fudge sees leadership as
serving, not self-serving. She asks, “How can I use my talents to give
back in some positive way?”
Any of us can figure out ways to drive a business for two years and make
a boatload of money and move on. That’s not leadership. That’s playing
a game. Leadership is leaving something lasting, whether it is how you treat
people or how you deal with a problem.
Aligning Your Purpose
In the introduction, we defined a leader as someone who brings
people together to pursue a shared purpose. Gaining alignment
around purpose is the greatest challenge leaders face. To sustain
the  motivation  of  teammates  and  a  successful  track  record,
authentic leaders like Andrea Jung convey such a sense of pas-
sion for their purpose that people share it and feel inspired by the
mission.
When he was chairman and CEO of Merck, Roy Vagelos had
great passion for discovering lifesaving drugs. He had been a med-
ical researcher for nineteen years when he was asked to become
dean of two prestigious medical schools, the Universities of Chicago
and Pennsylvania. Vagelos turned down the opportunities because
he believed being a dean was a dead end. “I was horrified about
becoming a dean, because you don’t teach or do research; you just
shuffle papers and push people around,” he explained. Then he got
an offer to become head of research for Merck.
I thought if I could use my knowledge of biochemistry to discover new
drugs, I could impact human health far beyond what I could do as a prac-
ticing doctor, and I could possibly change the technology of drug discovery.
I never thought of myself as being a leader, but asked myself instead if I
was contributing something to what’s going on in the world.
164TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 164

I first met Vagelos when he was selected for the U.S. Business
Hall of Fame by Junior Achievement for his leadership in elimi-
nating the African disease known as river blindness. Merck discov-
ered a cure, the drug Mezican, but market projections indicated
Africans could not afford it. Instead of shutting down the discovery
process, Vagelos decided to complete development of the drug and
distribute it for free in Africa.
You may be asking, “Where’s the shareholder benefit in that?”
Vagelos used the decision as tangible evidence of Merck’s purpose
and as a way of conveying a sense of meaning to his organization.
He explained, “Here’s a drug that can prevent blindness in eighteen
million people. That single decision put Merck in a position where
we could recruit anybody we wanted for the next decade.”
During that decade, Merck had the most productive record in
producing lifesaving new drugs of any pharmaceutical company, in
large part because of the inspiration that Merck’s researchers drew
from Vagelos’s passion and sense of purpose. Not surprisingly, Merck’s
shareholder value increased ten times during that decade. “Given a
choice of working just to make a living, or benefiting the people of
the world, the majority of people will choose the latter,” Vagelos
concluded.
The cynics would say it is easy to create a sense of purpose when
your team or company is saving lives like Merck, but what about
the grocery business? CEO Dave Dillon is a strong believer in cre-
ating shared purpose throughout the Kroger organization. Kroger
may not save lives, but it is a company where employees feel they
are  part  of  something  important.  Dillon  has  gained  alignment
around the proposition that serving the public in a service-oriented
grocery  operation  is  a  dignified,  proud  profession.  “All  human
beings want to find meaning in their lives. Our objective is to help
give them that meaning,” he said.
We have the opportunity to make customers’ lives better by making them
feel good about the world around them because someone was friendly to
them. Little touches of human kindness can literally change their day. If I
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION165
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 165

am the deliverer of human kindness, I wind up feeling better about myself
as well. At the end of our careers, we can look back and say, “I was part
of something special.”
Former Tropicana CEO Ellen Marram is critical of leaders who
pay lip service to saying their mission is to serve customers but do
not fully engage their employees with customers. “Many leaders
don’t understand that unless the customer is ultimately satisfied
they are not going to have a business,” she explains.
They smoke their own exhaust and see the world from the inside out.
To switch someone’s perspective, you have to get your employees to
interact with customers. When you send R&D and manufacturing peo-
ple to customer focus groups, all of a sudden they understand how con-
sumers use their products. Customers don’t care about the technology
used to make a product; they care only about how a product benefits
them in the end. As a leader, you always have to keep people’s eyes on
the endpoint. We may not be selling defibrillators that save lives, but
people feel good when they provide a product or service that people
really want.
The reason for Medtronic’s success is the alignment its employees
feel with the company’s mission of restoring people to full life. The
highlight of Medtronic’s year is not the annual shareholder meeting
but the annual holiday party. At this event, all Minneapolis-based
employees gather in the company’s large atrium auditorium, with
thousands more watching via webcast, to hear from six patients
who have received the company’s products. These six patients are
representative of the seven million people whose health has been
restored in the past year by company products.
As  the  patients  tell  personal  stories  of  how  their  lives  have
been changed by Medtronic products, the room fills with emotion.
Through  those  feelings,  Medtronic  employees  rediscover  what
their work  is  all  about—not  just  making  money  for  themselves
or the company but making a difference in the lives of others. By
166TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 166

seeing their impact on these patients, they understand the meaning
of their work.
What Is the Purpose of Business?
With all the frenzy in the 1990s around maximizing short-term
shareholder value, we lost sight of the purpose of business. It is not
simply to reward its shareholders in the near term but to create an
entity that has lasting value for all its constituencies.
Harvard  University  professor  Michael  Porter,  an  economist
famed for his breakthroughs in strategic planning, has challenged
those who claim the only measure of a company’s worth is its share-
holder value at a given instant. “Shareholder value,” he says, “does
not equal economic value.”
Given the vicissitudes and volatility of the stock market, share-
holder value may fluctuate a great deal, but the only sustainable
value  for  the  company  is  building  its  economic  value,  and  ulti-
mately, the company’s shareholder value will reflect that sustainable
economic value. Companies that attempt to increase shareholder
value by hyping their stocks without building economic value are
likely to go the way of Enron and WorldCom.
Infosys founder Narayana Murthy believes that the purpose of
business must go beyond maximizing shareholder value. He says,
“You cannot sustain long-term shareholder value unless you create
sustainable value for your customers, while assuring fairness to all
stakeholders: customers, employees, investors, vendor partners, gov-
ernments, and society.”
The best index of success is longevity. If you have existed for a long time,
that means you have gone through thick and thin, learned to strengthen
your character, focused on clients, and tightened your belt. That is what
makes you stronger.
Leaders can sustain their effectiveness only if they empower
employees around a shared purpose. As a leader, you must convey
LEADERSHIP WITH PURPOSE AND PASSION167
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 167

passion for the business every day while maintaining clarity about
the mission of your organization. Andrea Jung is as clear about her
passion and purpose as any leader we know: “I love Avon because it
changes women’s lives.”
There is purpose in my work: enabling women to be self-empowered,
learn to run their own businesses and achieve economic means to provide
education. At the end of the day, that trumps all things.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Ten, you may want
to complete the Chapter Nine Exercise found in Appendix C.
168TRUE NORTH
c09.qxp  1/17/07  8:32 PM  Page 168

169
10
EMPOWERING 
PEOPLE TO LEAD
I get things done by identifying with the people in
the company and by trusting them. I care most
about building a good team to lead the company.
—Anne Mulcahy, Chair and CEO, Xerox
Watching the brilliant young Norwegian conductor Arild Rem-
mereit  lead  the  Dallas  Symphony  Orchestra,  I  realized  that  an
entirely new version of the “conductor as metaphor for leadership”
has emerged, one that is consistent with our vision of how the new
breed of authentic leaders empowers others to step up and lead.
Remmereit’s style was in sharp contrast to the great showmen
who led major orchestras in years past, when the conductor was out
front taking all the credit. As he prepared to conduct Mendelssohn’s
Scottish Symphony, Remmereit spoke to the audience in his Nor-
wegian accent. “The musicians know within five minutes whether
a new conductor is any good or not,” he said, “and soon you will
learn what they think of me as their leader.”
For the next forty-seven minutes he demonstrated that his quiet
confidence was well placed. Without using a single sheet of music
to conduct the complex work, he knew every bar of the symphony
as well the parts for each instrument and how he wanted them
played. His demeanor on the podium was engaged and inspiring.
When the orchestra finished the finale, the audience rose in
unison for a standing ovation. Unwilling to take credit, Remmereit
insisted that the entire orchestra rise to take their bows and hurried
from the stage. Returning to the audience’s rhythmic applause, he
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 169

wandered through the rear of the orchestra, asking the musicians to
stand and take the credit, instead of mounting the podium as other
conductors do. Eventually making his way to the podium, he again
refused the solo bow and would only be recognized with the entire
orchestra.
Remmereit’s leadership is a metaphor for the best of today’s
business leaders:
•  He knew his True North: being true to the music as originally
intended.
•  He knew his purpose: producing beautiful and inspiring music.
•  He knew his subject in amazing detail.
•  He was highly authentic and humble in a confident way.
•  He knew how to get the best out of his musicians by empower-
ing them.
•  Finally, he was challenging, inspiring, respectful, and willing
to share the credit.
Anne Mulcahy: Empowering People Through a Crisis. Xerox
CEO Anne Mulcahy is an exceptional leader who has demon-
strated a remarkable ability to empower a large, diverse organiza-
tion around a common mission. Back in 2000, becoming CEO
of Xerox was the furthest thing from her mind. One day, as she
was preparing for a business trip to Japan, chairman Paul Allaire
came to her office and told her he planned to recommend that the
Xerox board terminate its current CEO and promote her to COO
and eventually CEO. She was so shocked that she asked for the
evening to discuss it with her family. The next day she accepted
the job.
The board’s decision surprised Mulcahy as well as everyone
else. Since joining Xerox twenty-five years before, she had worked
in field sales and on the corporate staff but not in finance, R&D, or
manufacturing. At the time she was enjoying her first general man-
agement assignment, running a relatively small business outside
170TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 170

the Xerox mainstream. “It was like going to war,” she recalled,
“knowing it was the right thing for the company and there was so
much at stake.”
This was a job that would dramatically change my life, requiring every
ounce  of  energy  that  I  had.  I  never  expected  to  be  CEO,  nor  was  I
groomed for it.
What no one understood was that Xerox was facing a massive
liquidity crisis and was on the verge of bankruptcy. Its revenues
were declining, its sales force was unraveling, and its new-product
pipelines were depleted. The company had $18 billion in debt, and
all lines of credit were exhausted. With the share price in free fall,
morale inside the company was in disarray. Xerox had just one week
of cash on hand as key advisers recommended that the company
consider bankruptcy. To make matters worse, Xerox’s chief financial
officer was preoccupied with an SEC investigation into the com-
pany’s revenue recognition practices.
As the situation went from bad to worse, Mulcahy recognized
just how great the risks of bankruptcy were.
My greatest fear was that I was sitting on the deck of the Titanicand I’d
get to drive it to the bottom of the ocean—not exactly a moment to be
proud of.
Nothing spooked me so much as waking up in the middle of the night
and thinking about 96,000 employees and retirees and what would hap-
pen if things went south.
How could Mulcahy cope with this crisis when she had had no
financial experience? She brought to the CEO’s role relationships
built over twenty-five years and an impeccable understanding of
the organization. She bled for Xerox and everyone knew it. To
ameliorate the gaps in her experience, she was tutored on finance
by the treasurer’s office and surrounded herself with a diverse set of
leaders.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD171
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 171

As Mulcahy recognized the depth of the company’s problems,
her purpose became crystal clear: to save the company from bank-
ruptcy and restore Xerox to its former greatness. Her challenge was
to unite the disheartened organization and to get leaders through-
out the company to step up to the challenge.
“I get things done by identifying with the people in the com-
pany and by trusting them,” she said. “I care most about building a
good team to lead the company.” She met personally with the top
one hundred executives to ask them if they would stay with the
company despite the challenges ahead. “I knew there were people
who weren’t supportive of me,” she said.
So I confronted a couple of them and said, “Hey, no games. Let’s just
talk. You can’t be thrilled. If you choose to stay, either we’re totally in
synch or when you go, it won’t be pleasant, because I have no appetite for
managing right now. This is about the company.”
The first two people she talked to, both of whom ran big oper-
ating units, decided to leave, but the remaining ninety-eight com-
mitted  to  stay.  They  did  so  because  Mulcahy  appealed  to  their
character and to the purpose of saving the company they loved.
One of them, Ursula Burns, noted, “I have a wonderful life and
great friends because of my partnership with this company. What
do you say when times are tough? ‘Thank you very much, I’ll see
you later?’ That’s not what my mother taught me.”
In spite of the pressures and endless rounds of meetings at head-
quarters, Mulcahy decided to get into customers’ offices and ride
with field salespeople to see if she could help stem the tide of cus-
tomer  defections  and  field-sales  resignations.  She  told  her  sales
force, “I will go anywhere, anytime, to save a Xerox customer.” Her
customer-engagement contrasted sharply with her predecessor, who
had rarely been seen outside the headquarters building. It sent an
important signal that solidified the Xerox field organization and
restored customer confidence.
172TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 172

Yet Mulcahy was both challenging and demanding, as she held
people publicly accountable for their results. Despite the tremen-
dous pressures the company was under, she set realistic expecta-
tions, “You can’t wish your way to good performance,” she said. “If
you set the bar someplace that buys you ninety days of stock-market
esteem, you will eventually get killed. Boy, is it ugly.”
She encouraged senior managers to engage each other directly.
“We talk about everything,” said Burns. “Anne is really clear: ‘Make
sure you get it.’ ” Mulcahy did not take the lead in every discussion,
playing  instead  what  Burns  described  as  an  orchestrating  role.
“She’s very good at reading people,” Burns explained, “and getting
us to work together.”
The bankruptcy question came to a head in the third week of
October 2001. Earlier in the month, Mulcahy candidly told the
company’s shareholders that Xerox’s business model was unsustain-
able. The next day the stock dropped 26 percent. Mulcahy noted,
“This was my baptism by fire.”
Mulcahy had traditionally drawn support by interacting with
her peers, but in her new role she had to provide her team with con-
fidence that the company could survive—in spite of any personal
doubts she had. “As a touchy-feely people person, the hardest thing
was that my new role required some distance I wasn’t prepared for.”
Yet  Mulcahy  was  not  immune  from  uncertainty  and  stress.
“One day I came back to the office from Japan and found it had
been a dismal day,” she explained.
Around 8:30P.M. on my way home, I pulled over to the side of the Mer-
ritt Parkway and said to myself, “I don’t know where to go. I don’t want
to go home. There’s just no place to go.”
Have you ever felt like that? In my experience, feelings of despair
among leaders are quite common, but most do not have the courage
to admit it. In times like these, you need the support of your col-
leagues. Mulcahy explained, “I picked up my voice mail and listened
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD173
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 173

to a message from chief strategist Jim Firestone: ‘This may seem like
the worst day, but we believe in you. This company will have a great
future.’ ” That was all Mulcahy needed to drive home and get up the
next day. “The team gave me incredible supportive strength. We
fight, we debate, but at the end of the day, they’ve been extremely
loyal and supportive.”
When  the  company’s  external  advisers  argued  that  Xerox
should prepare for a bankruptcy filing to relieve the $18 billion debt
burden, Mulcahy exploded.
I told them, “You don’t understand what it’s like to be an employee in this
company—to fight and win. Bankruptcy’s never a win. I’m not going
there until there’s no other decision to be made. There are a lot more
cards to play.” I was so angry because they could not comprehend the
passion and drive that’s required to succeed and the impact of bankruptcy
on the company’s employees. Our people believed we were in a war we
could win.
Anne Mulcahy did win in the end. She staved off bankruptcy
by cutting billions in operating expenses without touching R&D or
field sales and by reducing debt by 60 percent. In launching sixty
new products with new color and digital technology, she restored
revenue  and  profit  growth.  What  distinguished  her  leadership
throughout this crisis was her ability to empower people to rise to
the challenge and to keep them focused on the shared mission of
saving and restoring Xerox.
Mutual Respect: 
The Basis for Empowerment
To  bring  out  the  best  from  teammates,  authentic  leaders  must
develop trusting relationships based on mutual respect. There is no
substitute. Like loyalty, respect provides a basis for empowerment,
but it must be earned. Here are some of the things leaders do to gain
the respect of their colleagues:
174TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 174

•  Treating others as equals.
•  Being a good listener.
•  Learning from people.
•  Sharing life stories.
Treating Others as Equals
We respect people who treat us like equals, especially when they
are successful investors like Warren Buffett. Buffett has the same
sandwich and Cherry Coke combination with a group of wide-
eyed students as he does with his close friend Bill Gates. He does
not rely upon his image to make people feel he is important or
powerful. He genuinely respects others, and they respect him as
much for those qualities as for his investment prowess. Although
Anne  Mulcahy  had  never  met  Buffett,  she  felt  able  to  fly  to
Omaha to get his advice over his traditional steak dinner. By being
authentic in his interactions, Buffett empowers people to lead in
their own authentic ways.
Being a Good Listener
We are grateful when people genuinely listento us. Active listening
is  one  of  the  most  important  abilities  of  empowering  leaders,
because people sense such individuals are genuinely interested in
them and not just trying to get something from them.
Learning from People
We feel respected when others believe they can learn from us or ask
for our advice. When Warren Bennis, now in his eighties, meets
with his incoming class of USC undergraduate students each year,
he tells them, “I know I have a lot to learn from you.” The students
find that hard to believe at first, but they soon see how their feed-
back helps him understand how younger generations think.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD175
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 175

Sharing Life Stories
When leaders are willing to be open and share their personal stories
and vulnerabilities, people feel empowered to share their own sto-
ries and uncertainties in return. On Thanksgiving eve in 1996, I
sent an e-mail to all Medtronic employees expressing my gratitude
for  the  support  Penny  and  I  received  following  her  ordeal  with
breast cancer and chemotherapy. We were overwhelmed by the
number of people who spontaneously shared their stories with us.
Sharing our life stories can free us from our defenses and open
us to authentic relationships. Safeco CEO Paula Rosput Reynolds
described a prior experience in leading a team that had very low
trust. One person in particular was viewed as too opinionated and
unable to work well with colleagues until she asked him to share his
story with the team. He explained that his older brother and father
died during his preteen years, and he felt obligated to carry on for
them,  including  working  for  the  same  company  his  father  had
worked for. “All of a sudden, everyone understood and was willing
to work with him,” Reynolds explained. “That is why leadership
must be personal.”
Empowering People to Lead
If mutual respect provides the foundation for bringing out the best
from people, what are the steps needed to empower them? The
skills of empowerment take many forms, from simply showing up to
engaging people, helping them, challenging them, stretching them,
and  aligning  them  with  the  mission.  Effective  leaders  use  all  of
these approaches at different times, depending on the capabilities
of the people involved and the situation they are facing.
•  Showing up.
•  Engaging people.
•  Helping teammates.
176TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 176

•  Challenging leaders.
•  Stretching people.
•  Aligning everyone around a mission.
Showing Up
Woody Allen once remarked, “Eighty percent of success is showing
up.” Surprisingly, many leaders get so busy they don’t take the time
to be there for people. They don’t bother to attend award cere-
monies, company picnics, sales meetings, and even business and
project reviews. Nor do they show up around the offices, factories,
labs, and field sales and service locations. Often they are too busy to
come to important customer meetings or trade shows. As a result,
their teammates never get to know them on a personal basis. Their
only contact with their leaders is through impersonal media like
speeches, voice mail, videotapes, and web-streaming of company
events.
Howard Schultz told of visiting a Starbucks store one Saturday
morning:
I walked in, dressed so that nobody would recognize me. As soon as I sat
down, the manager came up and said, “Howard, is that you?” I said,
“Yes, it is.” She was telling me about receiving Starbucks stock, and what
it did for her and her family. Then she started crying and said, “I’m so
moved that you’re in my store.” Later I got voice mail from her, saying
what that moment was like for her. I immediately called her back and
thanked her for sharing with me.
Stories of basic human interactions like this one are very pow-
erful. All Schultz had to do was show up. Showing up at important
events or at unexpected times means a great deal to people and
enables them to take their leaders off their proverbial pedestals and
see them as real people.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD177
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 177

Engaging People
The most empowering leaders are those who engage a wide range of
people. That means being with them face-to-face; inquiring about
their work, their families, their personal lives, and their careers; and
being open and vulnerable with them. This degree of intimacy with
people they don’t know well makes some leaders uncomfortable,
but it is a powerful means of establishing deeper connections.
One  of  my  MBA  students  shared  a  story  about  working  for
Procter & Gamble in Chile:
We  had  the  first  visit  ever  from  CEO  A.G.  Lafley.  Lafley  asked  in
advance to visit the homes of poor people the day before our meeting. This
surprised all of us, since we generally do not go into the homes of poor peo-
ple. The next morning I was at my desk at 7:30
A.M. when Mr. Lafley
came walking down the hall. He stopped at my desk, put out his hand, and
said, “My name’s A.G. Please tell me about your work.” When I ner-
vously concluded explaining how we were expanding the market for P&G
products in Chile, again he shook my hand and said, “Thank you. Your
work is vital to the future of P&G and our ability to grow in countries like
Chile. I came here to see firsthand how we can expand our business in
developing markets and reach a broader range of consumers.”
That is empowerment. Your first reaction may be that Lafley
reached only one of the hundred thousand P&G employees, but the
reality is that my student and his colleagues told that story to hun-
dreds of people inside and outside the company to illustrate the per-
sonal qualities of their leader.
Helping Teammates
Authentic leaders help their teammates, whether it is with a per-
sonal problem or a career problem, by counseling with them, offer-
ing suggestions, or assisting them in making vital contacts. That in
turn is highly empowering.
178TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 178

Merck CEO Roy Vagelos ate regularly in the company cafete-
ria, where he asked people about their work and the challenges they
were facing. He took notes about the conversations and then thought
about the specific problems for a few days before calling the employ-
ees back with his ideas.
Imagine  how  Merck  researchers  must  have  felt  when  they
picked up the phone to hear Vagelos getting back to them. “I’d call
them up and say, ‘That’s a tough problem, but here are a couple
things you might try,’ ” Vagelos said. “People love to have involve-
ment of the leader. They feel you want to help them and are part of
the solution.” These interactions reinforced the importance of the
researchers’ work and had a multiplier effect upon employees.
Challenging Leaders
Empowering people is much more than a series of positive interac-
tions. Often, the most empowering response is to challenge people’s
ideas, to ask why they are doing something a particular way, and to
help them sharpen their ideas through dialogue. Although people
may feel uncomfortable in being challenged at first, they are usually
engaged with their leaders and anxious to respond.
Jack Welch was a master at asking challenging questions that
caused GE leaders to set higher standards for themselves and their
teams and to think more deeply about important issues of their busi-
ness. He wouldn’t hesitate to get on the phone and challenge man-
agers who were several levels below him.
Stretching People
Most people want to be stretched in assignments that enable them
to develop. The leader’s key is to sense when people are ready for
such challenging experiences, of the sort Jeff Immelt had in GE’s
plastics division.
Yet it is also important for your team to know that you will be
there to support them if necessary. Medtronic’s Martha Goldberg
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD179
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 179

Aronson tells the story of a boss who was willing to bet on her in
stretch roles while supporting her. On taking a new position, Aron-
son said, her new boss advised her,
On certain days you will feel that you’re way out on this limb. The wind
is going to start to blow, and you’re going to feel like the limb is going up
and down. You’re going to hear it crack, and you’re going to come crash-
ing down. That’s when I’ll be there to catch you.
It wasn’t long before Aronson encountered a quality problem
with her new line of catheters. She noted, “The branch cracked a
few times, and my boss was really there.” Just knowing you have
support from your leaders if things go wrong is very empowering. It
enables you to recognize that you will not be hung out to dry, so you
can take on stretch goals and significant challenges without fear of
someone sawing off the limb behind you.
Aligning Around a Mission
The most empowering condition of all is when the entire organiza-
tion is aligned with its mission, and people’s passions and purpose
are in synch with each other. It is not easy to get to this position,
especially if the organization has a significant number of cynics or
disgruntled people. Nonetheless, it is worth whatever effort it takes
to create an aligned environment.
Individuals usually have their own passions that drive them. If
the organization’s leaders can demonstrate how they can fulfill their
purpose while achieving the organization’s mission, then alignment
can occur.
Several years ago I visited Medtronic’s heart-valve factory in
southern California, where employees reconfigure valves from pig
hearts to replace human heart valves. Because the process is more
art than science, it requires extremely skilled workers. On the fac-
tory floor I met the top producer, a Laotian immigrant who made a
thousand valves a year. When I asked her the key to her process,
180TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 180

she looked at me with passion in her eyes and said, “Mr. George, my
job is to make heart valves that save lives.”
Before I sign my name to a completed valve, I decide whether it is good
enough to put in my mother or my son. Unless it meets that standard, it
does not pass. If just one of the valves I make is defective, someone may
die. To the company 99.9 percent quality may be acceptable, but I could
not live with myself if I caused someone’s death. But when I go home at
night, I fall asleep thinking about the five thousand people who are alive
today because of heart valves I made.
Can there be any question that she is a leader among her peers?
She has a passion for her work that is tied directly to the company’s
mission; she sets high standards for herself, and she sets the exam-
ple for everyone else to emulate.
Marilyn Carlson Nelson: Building an Empowered Culture.
Marilyn Carlson Nelson, CEO of travel-and-leisure conglomerate
Carlson Companies, has dramatically transformed the company
founded by her father, Curtis Carlson. Carlson was a consummate
salesman and a tough, demanding boss. Seeing an employee leav-
ing the office at 7:30 P.M. one night, Carlson asked if he had lost his
enthusiasm for the business. “Monday through Friday are about
staying  even  with  the  competition,”  he  often  said.  “Saturday  is
when you get ahead.”
The elder Carlson taught his daughter about business but never
encouraged her to join his company, believing that women were
not meant for the workplace. After giving birth to her first child,
Nelson worked from her home as publisher of Carlson’s employee
newspaper. After she produced a catalog of the company’s products,
she was promoted to department head. When she reported this
news  to  her  father,  his  response  was  blunt:  “You’re  getting  too
involved in the business. You should be at home with your chil-
dren.” Added Nelson, “My father fired me on the spot. I left the
building with tears running down my face.”
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD181
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 181

While raising her family, Nelson got deeply involved in the Min-
neapolis community, chairing the Minnesota Orchestral Association,
creating “Scandinavia Today,” and bringing the 1992 Super Bowl to
Minnesota on the coldest weekend of the year. She also became the
first woman to serve on the boards of major local corporations and
was co-owner of a rural bank. As her business profile continued to
rise, her father repeatedly rebuffed her interest in his company.
When her last child went off to college, Nelson finally rejoined
Carlson—at age forty-eight. In her first month she accompanied
her father to a presentation by MBA students at Minnesota’s Carl-
son School about their research into Carlson Companies’ corporate
culture. Nelson recalled asking, “How do the students see Carlson?”
No one dared to answer. Finally, one student said, “Carlson is per-
ceived as a sweatshop that does not care about people. Our profes-
sors  don’t  recommend  that  we  work  for  Carlson.”  Nelson  was
stunned. “That meeting lit a fire under me,” she said. She realized
then she needed to change the corporate culture away from her
father’s top-down, autocratic style.
When her brother-in-law abruptly departed as CEO two years
later, her eighty-year-old father returned to active management, and
Nelson took on more prominent operational roles but still was not
designated as successor. Meanwhile, the management turmoil con-
tinued as key executives left the company, frustrated by Carlson’s
command-and-control   management   style.   Eventually,   Nelson
assumed responsibility for key Carlson divisions and began to reshape
the company’s leadership and strategy. At the celebration for her
father on the company’s sixtieth anniversary, she was named CEO.
Undaunted,  Carlson  cautioned  his  daughter  against  relying
on others. “Be very careful,” he told her. “You can’t trust anyone
besides yourself.” Nelson had just the opposite point of view, feel-
ing that trust would work in a caring environment. “If you create a
supportive environment, you can attract people who are trustwor-
thy, so long as you trust them and you are trustworthy yourself,” she
explained.
182TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 182

In  place  of  the  company’s  founder-driven  culture,  Nelson
focused on employees and customers. “In the command-and-control
environment,” she explained, “my dad robbed himself of the oppor-
tunity to hear contrarian views.”
The contrarian view forces you to either understand or change your posi-
tion. I moved to a collaborative mode of management. Now we rely on
everybody to bring their wisdom and experience to bear on decisions. I
believe that collective wisdom has great value when it comes from solid
thinking. Ultimately, the leader still has to make the final decision.
Nelson decided to reinvent Carlson as a company that cared for
customers by creating the most caring environment for its employ-
ees. She shifted emphasis away from stewardship of financial capital
toward acquiring and cultivating human capital with experience,
wisdom, and collective-thinking skills. She looked for three char-
acteristics in employees: character, competence, and caring. “The
need for character as absolute trustworthiness, and competence in
the form of global experience, expertise, and judgment, are not sur-
prising,” Nelson explained, “but the characteristic of caring was not
self-evident.”
I looked for people who had “a servant’s heart.” Servant leadership is an
important driver of the culture we want to create. A satisfied employee
delivers a satisfied customer. In the service business, customers understand
very quickly whether you legitimately care about serving them.
Recognizing that these values had to be embraced by Carlson
locations worldwide if they were to become key behaviors for every
Carlson employee, Nelson traveled tirelessly to meet with company
employees and customers around the world. “We can build rela-
tionships only if an employee is affirmed and empowered, enjoys
clarity of direction, and understands the vision and mission of the
company,” she said.
EMPOWERING PEOPLE TO LEAD183
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 183

We cannot just teach restaurant employees to put a meal on the table. In
a restaurant you can customize the experience if you know when cus-
tomers want privacy or when they want fun.
Reflecting on the changes she had wrought over the course of
nine years, Nelson said that these days no follow-up study by MBAs
could conclude that Carlson does not care about people. “You can-
not change a culture in six months,” she explained. “If you change
the business model and build transparency and collaborative discus-
sion into the culture, it will eventually take hold, but it takes time.”
Having suffered from her own daughter’s death twenty years
before, Nelson never lost sight of her personal mission “to use every
tool at hand as an opportunity to give back or make life better for
people.” Her transformation of Carlson to a collaborative culture is
a remarkable example of how a leader can inspire employees around
a common vision and empower them to lead.
Leaders like Mulcahy and Nelson have discovered that the results
achieved by empowering people throughout their organizations with
passion and purpose are far superior to what can be accomplished by
getting them to be loyal followers. By giving others the latitude to
lead within the organization’s broad purpose, they are able to dele-
gate more of their leadership responsibilities and still expand the
scope and reach of their leadership through more people.
Note to the reader: Before going on to Chapter Eleven, you may
want to complete the Chapter Ten Exercise found in Appendix C.
184TRUE NORTH
c10.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 184

185
11
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP
EFFECTIVENESS
My height was a very clear reminder to me that
I couldn’t simply emulate this man. In a symbolic
way it reminded me that I had to find my own
style of being effective, rather than
trying to imitate someone else.
—Ellen Marram, Tropicana
In  the  Introduction,  we  noted  that  the  leaders  interviewed
believed they were more effective and got better results when
they were authentic. In this final chapter, we explore how you
can optimize your leadership effectiveness. Once you empower
people to lead around a shared purpose, you are well positioned
to achieve superior results through your organization. The final
step in maximizing your effectiveness as an authentic leader is
to hone your leadership style and make authentic use of your
power.
Producing superior results through your leadership will gen-
erate greater influence for you and your teammates and provide
you  with  opportunities  to  take  on  added  responsibility.  The
process produces a virtuous circle that will encourage others to
join you and sustain your effectiveness on an ongoing basis. This
reinforcing cycle is precisely what leaders like Dick Kovacevich,
Dan Vasella, Andrea Jung, Howard Schultz, and Marilyn Carlson
Nelson have used throughout their careers to produce superior
results.
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 185

Optimizing Your Leadership Effectiveness
The topic of style has been saved for last because the style of an
effective leader must come from an authentic place. That will only
happen  when  you  have  a  high  level  of  self-awareness,  are  clear
about your values, and understand your leadership purpose.
Without this clarity, your style will be shaped by the expecta-
tions of your organization or the outside world and will not be seen
as  authentic.  Nor  will  it  be  empowering  to  people.  Using  your
power is directly linked to your style, as you convey power through
style.
Yet your use of style and power must fit the situation you are fac-
ing, and you have to be versatile to maximize your effectiveness in
that situation.In the aftermath of the attacks of September 11, 2001,
New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani acted decisively to get urgently
needed resources in place. He had no time to build consensus. In
situations like these, people need decisive leaders to guide them effi-
ciently and calmly to solutions. On the other hand, when trying to
create a future vision for their organizations, leaders need to use a
more participative style that involves a wide range of people and
gets them engaged and committed to that vision.
You also need to adapt your leadership style to the capabilities
of your teammates and their readiness to accept greater power and
responsibility. For example, if your teammates need clear direction,
they may not be ready to respond to a consensus style. Conversely,
creative or independent thinkers will not respond positively to a
directive style. As you think about your leadership style and power,
ask yourself these questions:
•  Is your leadership style consistent with your leadership princi-
ples and values? Is it ever inconsistent?
•  How do you adapt your style to the circumstances facing you
and to the capabilities of your teammates?
•  How do you optimize the use of your power in leading others?
186TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 186

•  In situations in which you used your power over others inap-
propriately, how did they respond?
•  How do you respond to powerful people who use their power
over you? What is the most appropriate way to deal with very
powerful people?
John Whitehead’s Consensus Leadership. John Whitehead of
Goldman Sachs has led just about every possible organization, from
one of the world’s great investment banks to the U.S. State Depart-
ment, the New York Federal Reserve, major educational institu-
tions, and other nonprofit organizations. But on the morning of
June 6, 1944, as a twenty-one-year-old ensign in the U.S. Navy,
Whitehead faced one of the greatest leadership challenges of his
life. He was leading six boats in the first wave of the massive inva-
sion fleet nine miles off the shore of Normandy. The rain was com-
ing down in sheets, and the ocean surged and chopped with fury.
Just before the sun came up, Whitehead gave the signal to proceed
to land.
Amid an increasing artillery barrage, his boat encountered a
long string of metal bars embedded in the ocean floor that blocked
the designated route. Disobeying orders, Whitehead directed his
boats to turn parallel to shore to look for an opening in the barri-
cade  before  turning  toward  the  beach.  “Because  of  the  delicate
coordination of the invasion,” he said, “I was under strict orders to
proceed directly to the beach and not deviate for any reason. Had I
followed those orders, we would have been hung up on the barri-
cade and blocked all the boats coming in behind us.”
Sometimes you have lots of time to make a decision. I had maybe ten sec-
onds to think about this one. There was no time for consensus or to con-
sult with anybody. There are very few decisions in life where you don’t
have some time to think about what your decision should be as a leader.
This was the fastest decision that I made. I used my instinctive reactions
to decide what should be done.
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS187
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 187

The small flotilla soon found a break and headed for the beach
again. As the boats came under heavy fire, the pins that held the
bow doors malfunctioned, preventing the launch ramp from going
into the water. Whitehead climbed forward in the boat to hammer
them out so the infantry troops could advance to the shore. “Half the
people in my boat were killed or wounded in the first hundred yards
up the beach,” said Whitehead. “It was very, very heavy fire, and I
was lucky to escape it.”
On D-Day, Whitehead relied on his intuition and used a very
direct leadership style to make the decision to countermand the
orders he had been given. It was a far cry from the consensus-driven
approach that he had developed as president of the student council
at Haverford College. Haverford, founded by Quakers, required
weekly attendance at Quaker meetings and perpetuated traditions
of rectitude, modesty, and consensus-based decision making that
made a lasting impact on him.
I never was a convert to Quakerism or pacifism, but I was influenced
by Quaker principles like reaching consensus and respecting other peo-
ple’s viewpoints. Quakers never vote, but continue to talk until reaching
consensus.
After the war, Whitehead went to business school and then
joined Goldman Sachs in 1947. He started as a statistician, sitting
in an unheated former squash court, doing unglamorous, highly
quantitative work. At this time, the firm was controlled by five part-
ners, but its fortunes depended on the country’s best-known invest-
ment  banker,  managing  partner  Sidney  Weinberg.  Noticing
Whitehead’s work ethic and character, Weinberg made him his
assistant and became his mentor and role model.
In one instance, Whitehead drafted a confidential report for
Weinberg detailing the company’s overdependence on Weinberg’s
relationships and outlining a plan to build new business relationships
for the firm. After being elected partner the following year, White-
head circulated the report to the other fifteen partners. Hearing no
188TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 188

opposition, he started the new business department, hiring four peo-
ple to solicit business from the largest companies in the country.
Because he worried that the ethos of the firm could be lost to
rapid growth, Whitehead decided Goldman Sachs needed a clear set
of business principles that all employees would adhere to in their busi-
ness dealings. Working at home one Sunday afternoon, he drafted
the  ten  essential  points  that  made  Goldman  Sachs  distinctive.
Known as “Our Business Principles,” the document reflected White-
head’s leadership philosophy. “With the exception of two principles
added by the lawyers,” he said, “Goldman Sachs today operates
with the same business principles I wrote on that yellow pad.”
When  Weinberg’s  successor,  Gus  Levy,  experienced  a  fatal
stroke in 1976, Whitehead was an obvious choice to become co-
chairman. In contrast to the rough-and-tumble style of his com-
petitors, Whitehead continued to use the consensus style he had
learned years before at Haverford to build equality among his part-
ners. He retired from Goldman in 1984 after a remarkable thirty-
seven-year career, but his legacy continues to this day. Principles
like “Our clients’ interests always come first” and “Teamwork in
everything we do” are still part of the modus operandi of the firm.
For Whitehead, the word retirementproved to be a misnomer.
Again  and  again,  he  stepped  up  to  important  leadership  roles,
including deputy secretary of state, chairman of the New York Fed-
eral Reserve, and chair of the board of trustees of more than a dozen
nonprofits, including his alma maters. It is especially noteworthy
that in all these situations, he continued to use his consensus style
and to use his power modestly.
Yet Whitehead never hesitated to exert his influence over deci-
sions, employing his persuasive powers and tenacity to win people
over to his point of view. When Goldman’s partners were deciding
whether to take the firm public in 1999, Whitehead got involved
to make sure the firm maintained its unique partnership culture and
its business principles. As a former client and now a board member
of Goldman, I have had the opportunity to witness firsthand just
how widely those principles are practiced.
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS189
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 189

Whitehead’s consensus style faced its greatest challenge after
September 11, when New York Governor George Pataki recruited
him  to  chair  the  Lower  Manhattan  Development  Corporation
(LMDC) to rebuild the World Trade Center. The politicized atmos-
phere in which the LMDC operated was a new environment for
Whitehead. When he stepped down from his formal role as chair-
man four years later in May 2006, he acknowledged, “The job is still
not done.”
Reaching decisions in the intense political atmosphere is the toughest assign-
ment I’ve ever had. Both the governor and the mayor were running for
office and worrying about their public impression. There is a very high level
of public interest over what gets rebuilt in Lower Manhattan. There are
eight million people in New York and eight million ideas as to what should
be rebuilt at Ground Zero.
Across this wide range of for-profit, government, and nonprofit
leadership situations, John Whitehead has demonstrated his ability
to master the context and make optimal use of his consensus style
of leadership, without deviating from his principles. His story illus-
trates that you can be an effective leader in very different situations
if you listen to the people around you, work hard at understanding
the challenges you face, and employ an empowering leadership style
that optimizes the use of your power.
Defining—and Refining—Your Leadership Style
How do you know what leadership style fits you best? Are you con-
cerned about whether your authentic style will be acceptable and
effective in the organizations you join? Do you worry that you may
have to modify your style to get ahead before you have organiza-
tional power?
Many organizations work hard to get young leaders to embrace
the company’s normative leadership style, sending them to training
programs to bring their styles into line. Therein lies the risk: Will
190TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 190

you have to compromise who you are in order to succeed in the
organization? If you do, you will feel like an imposter, trying to be
something you are not.
Many of the best leaders wrestled with those exact questions
early in their careers. Iconic CEOs like Jim Burke of Johnson &
Johnson and Jack Welch of GE quit their jobs within the first year
because they refused to conform to company norms, yet powerful
mentors attracted them back.
If you simply adopt an organization’s normative style or try to
emulate someone else’s style, your lack of authenticity will show
through. Under pressure and stress, leaders tend to revert to their
least  attractive  styles—from  being  highly  directive  or  passive
aggressive to completely withdrawn. That is why you should find a
leadership style that is authentic to you and continue to refine it.
Ellen Marram of Tropicana learned that early in her career. One
of the first division heads she worked for would stand up when he
wanted to make a point convincingly. He was a full foot taller than
Marram, who recalled, “It sounds silly, but my height was a very
clear reminder to me that I couldn’t simply emulate this man. In a
symbolic way it reminded me that I had to find my own style of
being effective, rather than trying to imitate someone else.”
In thinking about your leadership, consider where you fit among
the six leadership style categories shown in Exhibit 11.1.
The directive style of leadership was common in the past, espe-
cially in military and manufacturing operations. It is still needed
during crises like September 11, when time is of the essence. As
more companies are built around knowledge workers, the directive
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS191
Exhibit 11.1  Leadership Styles
• Directive Leaders
• Engaged  Leaders
• Coaching Leaders
• Consensus Leaders
• Affiliative Leaders
• Expert Leaders
Demand compliance and obedience with rules
Mobilize people around shared purpose and values
Develop people for leadership roles
Build agreement through participation
Create emotional bonds and harmony
Expect competence and self-direction
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 191

style has proven ineffective in motivating people to take initiative
or be creative.
The  most  common  style  to  emerge  in  recent  years  is  the
engaged  style.  Engaged  leaders  like  Anne  Mulcahy  are  actively
involved with people at all levels of the organization—questioning
them, listening to them, motivating them, and encouraging them
to perform at a higher level—but always within the shared purpose
and values of the organization. 
Coaching leaders like John Donahoe bring out the best in peo-
ple and develop them for future leadership roles. Usually such lead-
ers  are  more  concerned  with  people’s  development  in  order  to
achieve long-term results than they are in immediate outcomes.
Consensus leaders like John Whitehead treat everyone on the
team as an equal and work toward consensus by encouraging every-
one to participate in decision making. They are quite willing to
take the time to reach conclusions, even to the point of postpon-
ing decisions, until a consensus emerges. Most nonprofit organiza-
tions need consensus leaders to motivate the various constituent
groups.
Affiliative leaders build bonds of trust among people. Keeping
harmony among team members and their leaders often takes prece-
dence over getting near-term results. These leaders are often most
effective at bringing out the best in their teammates by giving the
impression that they are not leading at all. Their leadership is sub-
tle and restrained.
Expert leaders such as Craig Venter, sequencer of the human
genome, rely heavily on their own knowledge and expertise. They
are often found in scientific organizations, consulting, and financial
services,  where  the  individual  stars  rise  to  leadership  positions.
They tend to listen primarily to other experts while demanding that
their teammates exhibit equally high levels of knowledge and indi-
vidual performance.
Authentic leaders use directive or expert styles when needed to
get things done, but their primary leadership styles are engaged,
coaching, consensus, and affiliative.
192TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 192

Using Power Wisely
The effective use of power in relationships is essential to achieving
one’s goals. After negotiating nuclear arms reduction treaties with
the  Soviet  Union  and  presiding  over  the  Bechtel  Corporation,
George Shultz understands power as well as anyone. His advice:
“Don’t be afraid of power, but be responsible with it.”
Many leaders feel powerless without the benefit of title, rank,
and large organizations to support them. When they do not use
their power, leaders find themselves at risk of being dominated by
powerful people. Yet they have more power than they realize, if only
they assert themselves. Earlier in my career, I found myself backing
off to a powerful executive. A colleague challenged me: “Why are
you giving away so much power to him?” Recognizing that he was
right, I started challenging the executive more and found he was
willing to let me take the lead.
Traditionally, power has meant dominance over others. Indeed,
many leaders in high-level organizational roles use their positional
power to dominate others. Often, however, they underesti-
mate  their  impact  on  other  people  and  do  not  realize  that
their intimidating style and excessive use of power shuts down
the contributions of others. They never understand why they do not
get the best out of their people and why their organizations are
not performing.
Many  of  the  most  effective  leaders  gain  influence  by  using
power  more  subtly.  Engaged  leaders  influence  people  by  getting
them involved in decisions and persuading them. Coaching leaders
gain influence by their ability to counsel with people and help them
think through issues and improve the way they perform.
Although some would view consensus and affiliative leaders as
relatively less powerful, just the opposite is the case. Their ability to
gain agreement around their point of view gives consensus leaders
great influence over others. Affiliative leaders use empathy and con-
cern for others to generate support and emotional bonding. When
they ask for help, people are more than willing to respond.
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS193
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 193

Expert leaders’ power is entirely different from the other leader-
ship  types.  It  derives  from  their  intellect  and  the  depth  of  their
knowledge, which generates respect from and influence over others.
These more subtle forms of power and influence—persuading,
counseling, gaining agreement, empathy, and knowledge—are gen-
erally much more effective than the use of positional power and
dominance in increasing your impact as a leader.
The irony is that the more power one accumulates, the less it
should be used. Viewed another way, by exerting your power, you
are taking away the power of others. Authentic leaders understand
they need power to get things done, but they learn to use it in sub-
tle ways. They prefer to persuade others to adopt their point of view
or to build a consensus rather than forcing subordinates to go along
with them. In so doing, they win the trust, loyalty, and support of
their teammates. That in turn leads to better decisions and a higher
level of commitment to shared goals.
Linking Style and Power
Your style and your use of power are inextricably linked. Your style
conveys your sense of power, just as the way your use of power is
reflected in your leadership style. Table 11.1 illustrates this linkage
and indicates the kind of teammates who flourish with each style of
leadership.
Directive leaders create dependent relationships with their
subordinates, who obediently carry out their orders and respond
to their demands. On the other hand, engaged leaders establish
interdependent  relationships  by  empowering  and  influencing
members of the team. Anne Mulcahy gains power with her team-
mates by asking probing questions and listening carefully. Her
team thus becomes more open to new ideas and more effective in
working out creative solutions to difficult problems. As a result,
she has no need to use her positional power to force people to sup-
port her.
194TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 194

Coaching leaders create interdependent relationships the way
Bill  Campbell  did  with  Randy  Komisar,  Donna  Dubinsky,  and
Bruce  Chizen.  Those  three  needed  Campbell’s  help  to  develop
as leaders, just as he needed them to build a great company. Coach-
ing leaders believe people must learn from their own experiences,
especially when failing. They do not jump in and correct employ-
ees too soon in order to avoid negative outcomes. They are most
effective with teammates who are receptive to coaching and gen-
uinely want to grow.
Consensus leaders use power in subtle ways to reach agreement
without hurting feelings or isolating people with different points of
view. They are masters at working behind the scenes to develop
long-term, interdependent relationships to bring people together
around common goals. Consensus building works less well when
time is short.
Affiliative  leaders  are  embraced  by  others  for  their  highly
empathic relationships. Their power comes through the strength of
the relationships they build, which create loyalty and mutual trust.
Such leaders are most effective with people who are committed to
being team players and treasure interdependent relationships.
Table 11.1  Leadership Style and Power Grid
Leader’s                       Use                       of                       Teammates’                       Relationship                       
StylePowerStyleEstablished
DirectiveDominating,           ObedientDependent
Positional
EngagedPersuadingEmpoweredInterdependent
CoachingCounselingReceptiveInterdependent
ConsensusGaining               EqualityInterdependent
Agreement
AffiliativeEmpathyTeam-Oriented    Interdependent
ExpertKnowledgeAutonomousIndependent
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS195
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 195

Expert leaders believe knowledge is power and that being right
and efficient is more important than the relationship. Offering lit-
tle empathy or emotional support, they are most effective in settings
where teammates are autonomous and results depend on knowledge
and expert judgment.
Adapting to the Situation . . .
As leaders mature through multiple experiences, they develop an
authentic primary leadership style that works well for them and
makes effective use of their power. That style is effective as long as
their situation or context stays the same. But what happens when
the context changes? Will consensus or affiliative leaders be able to
shift to a more urgent style to address the immediate situation?
In leading, you must always understand the situation in which
you  are  operating,  as  well  as  the  performance  imperative.  As
Narayana Murthy said, “Leadership must always be put in a con-
text. If you take the best corporate leaders and make them senators
or president, they may not succeed because that is a different con-
text.” Once you understand the context, however, you can adjust
your communication and leadership style to get results.
Amgen CEO Kevin Sharer’s experience at MCI taught him the
value of a flexible leadership style, one that could vary with the
needs  of  the  business  and  the  readiness  of  his  team  to  operate
autonomously. Sharer described flexibility as a matter of the appro-
priate “altitude” for the level of abstraction or specificity of the task
at hand.
At the highest altitude, you’re asking the big questions: What are the com-
pany’s mission and strategy? Do people understand and believe in these
aims? At the lowest altitude, you’re looking at on-the-ground operations:
Did we make that sale? What was the yield on the last lot in the factory?
In between, you ask questions like: Should we invest in a small biotech-
nology company that has a promising new drug? How many chemists
should we hire this quarter?
196TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 196

As a CEO you’ve got to be working at all of these levels simultaneously,
and that’s not easy. I learned from Jack Welch the skill of rapidly shifting
between levels, or even engaging several levels at once. Most CEOs tend
to gravitate toward the altitude where they’re most comfortable. Unfortu-
nately, they get in trouble because they get stuck at a particular altitude.
Sharer acknowledged his own tendency to be preoccupied by
the nitty-gritty details of a problem: “When I go into my submarine
mode—when I go very, very deep into a problem—I tend to think
I can solve it myself and am at risk of ignoring the advice of experts
and closing down debate.”
I’ve paid a price for this—for example, in forging ahead with a product that
others were saying didn’t have sufficient commercial promise. Mainly, I
prefer to work at a middle-to-high altitude. I’m fascinated with strategic
alternatives. This can also be destabilizing to the organization. People
begin wondering, “What idea is Kevin going to have next?” I’ve learned
to be careful about ruminating on these things with the wrong audience.
But moving nimbly in and out of a variety of areas and at different alti-
tudes is crucial to leadership success, particularly in times of rapid growth
and uncertainty.
Sharer has worked hard to improve the effectiveness of his lead-
ership style and his use of power. He has developed a more effective
style and learned to use his power in more subtle ways. He credited
the  360-degree  review  process  with  helping  him  improve.  “My
model as CEO is the prime-ministerial one,” he said, “where if you
don’t have the support of independent, strong, and knowledgeable
cabinet members, you don’t have a job.”
. . . and to Your Teammates
In determining the style and power you want to use in a given situ-
ation,  you  should  consider  the  readiness  of  your  teammates  to
accept greater power and authority. For example, teammates who
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS197
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 197

are used to taking clear direction may not be ready to adapt to a
leader with a consensus style; conversely, followers who are highly
creative and independent will not respond positively to a directive
style. You should also think carefully about the kind of relationship
you want to have with your teammates and what type of relation-
ship will enable your team or organization to achieve its business
imperatives. These relationships generally fit one of three types:
dependent, independent, and interdependent.
In creating dependent relationships, leaders must recognize that
their teammates will rely entirely on their direction and their deci-
sions. Dependent subordinates tend to be lost without clear, specific
guidance from the leader.
At the opposite end of the spectrum, independent relationships
give teammates the autonomy and freedom to act on their own, but
there is little bonding or group support. Academics and scientists
generally work well in this environment.
In creating interdependent relationships, engaged, coaching,
consensus, and affiliative leaders share power with teammates
and bring out their best qualities. They believe interdependence
creates better decisions and greater commitment to ensuring
success.
Optimizing Effectiveness
to Achieve Superior Results
The bottom line for allleaders is to optimize their effectiveness
to  achieve  superior  long-term  results.  Authentic  leaders  are
more effective at doing this because they have a clear sense of
their moral compass and are explicitly committed to building
their organizations over time. By developing an authentic lead-
ership style, they get the best from their teammates and their
organizations.
Through multiple experiences, authentic leaders learn how to
use their power and style in a nuanced and flexible manner to adapt
198TRUE NORTH
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 198

to the situation they are facing and to rally people to the cause. In
so doing, they improve both their effectiveness and the results their
organizations generate.
Leaders who produce superior results—whether they are lead-
ing a team for the first time or at the top of their organizations—
build credibility and influence within their organizations and in
the world around them. Without results, credibility suffers and
influence is lost. Those who build credibility and influence also
gain responsibility within the organization and the resources that
go with it. Added responsibility and resources position them to
take on even greater challenges and give them the ability to sus-
tain superior results. This is just as true for a young engineering
project leader in a computer company as it is for IBM CEO Sam
Palmisano.
Every leader has to meet the bottom-line test. When you do so
authentically, you find yourself in a virtuous circle in which your
results reinforce the effectiveness of your leadership. Your success
attracts talented people, both inside the company and outside, who
join your team and commit themselves to the common purpose,
thus sustaining the cycle of success.
Superior results over a sustained period of time are the ultimate
mark of authentic leaders. At the end of the day, you can honestly
say that you followed your True North and made a difference in the
world through your leadership.
Figure 11.1 illustrates the linkage between your life story, your
development of the five dimensions of an authentic leader, and the
transformation that enables you to empower other leaders. In the
end, this approach to discovering your authentic leadership enables
you to make an impact and get results.
Note to the reader: Before going on to the Epilogue, you may want
to complete the Chapter Eleven Exercise found in Appendix C. Once
you’ve read the Epilogue, you’ll be ready to prepare your Personal Lead-
ership Development Plan, also in Appendix C. You can update it regu-
larly to incorporate your experiences.
HONING YOUR LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS199
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 199

Figure 11.1  Getting to Results and Making an Impact
Transformation
From “I” to
“We”
Your
Story
Leadership
Development
Authentic
Leadership
Empowering
Other Leaders
Self-
Awareness
The Imposter
Purpose
Values and
Principles
The Rationalizer
Values
Motivations
Empowering
Other
Leaders
Make an
Impact and
Get Results
Finding Your
Purpose and
Aligning with it
Honing Style
and Use of
Power
The Glory Seeker
Heart
Support
Team
The Loner
Relationships
Integrated
Life
The Shooting Star
Self-Discipline
c11.qxp  1/17/07  8:34 PM  Page 200

201
Epilogue
The Fulfillment of Leadership
Just for a moment, envision yourself at the end of your life. You are
at home in your bedroom. All the children, grandchildren, and
great-grandchildren  have  gathered  around  you  to  say  good-bye.
Your adorable great-granddaughter looks up at you with her bright
brown eyes and says, “Please—tell us what did you do in your life to
make a difference in the world?”
Tears well up in your eyes and a lump forms in your throat as the
important people and events of your life flash before your eyes. You
think back to all the moving speeches given at your ninetieth birth-
day party and recall that you never had the opportunity to say what
your life and leadership were all about. Now you have that oppor-
tunity. In the presence of your entire family, what are you going to
say? What will your legacy be?
Why not take the opportunity to think about that question
right now, while you are still writing your life story? Just as it is never
too late to lead, it is never too late to make a difference in the world
and to leave a legacy for those who come along after you. But only
youcan answer that question. When you know your answer, you
will also recognize why leadership is so fulfilling.
A close friend of mine devotes his time to working with busi-
nesspeople in their fifties and sixties who have achieved great finan-
cial  success  but  find  their  lives  are  hollow  because  there  is  no
fulfillment in them. It is never too late . . . or too soon to step up to
leadership.
After studying numerous cases of failed executives in my MBA
class, a student asked, “Is leading an organization worth the risks of
bepil.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 201

failing,  of  being  criticized,  of  being  sued,  or  even  of  being  dis-
graced?” She was correct in assuming that being an authentic leader
means taking all those risks.
In my closing talk for that class, I quoted Theodore Roosevelt’s
famous 1910 speech at the Sorbonne, “The Man in the Arena.”
It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong
man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better.
The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is
marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly . . . who knows
great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy
cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement,
and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that
his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know
victory nor defeat.
Are you prepared to enter that arena, to dare greatly, to know
the great enthusiasms and the great devotions, and to spend your-
self in a worthy cause? If you are, in the end you will also know the
triumph of high achievement.
That is the fulfillment of leadership.
You cannot find that fulfillment by observing leaders from the
sidelines or by being a brilliant observer from the press box, high
above the arena. You have no choice but to get in there and get
your face marred by dust and sweat and blood.
That is what life and leadership are all about. Your fulfillment
comes not from the money, the titles, the awards, or the recogni-
tion. These fleeting symbols of external gratification will vanish like
the wind.
What will remain are the memories:
•  Working together toward shared goals with a group of people
you care about.
•  Being passionate about helping other people or righting soci-
etal wrongs.
202TRUE NORTH
bepil.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 202

•  Toiling long hours to get it right.
•  Debating and arguing to understand each other’s points of view.
•  Failing and then regrouping to learn from your mistakes.
•  Growing together as leaders.
•  Making a difference in the world through your combined
efforts.
After reaching your goal together, pause long enough to cele-
brate your success before going on to the next challenge. Then pass
it on to those who carry on after you.
That is the fulfillment of leadership.
It is knowing who you are and staying on the course of your True
North. And of knowing that when you found you were off course,
you were able to correct your direction and get back on track.
There is no satisfaction in your professional life that can com-
pare to this sense of fulfillment. No individual achievement can
equal the pleasure of leading a group of people to achieve a worthy
goal. When you cross the finish line together, all the pain and suf-
fering you may have experienced quickly vanishes. It is replaced by
a deep inner satisfaction that you made a difference in the world.
Countless numbers of people, many as yet unborn, will benefit
from your efforts. They will pass on your legacy to those who come
along behind, because at the end of the day, the only thing you take
with you is what you leave behind.
Is that what you will tell your great-granddaughter? If it is, she will
stand on your shoulders and see an even greater vista ahead to explore
on her journey to authentic leadership. Your legacy will be complete.
You followed your True North.
You discovered your authentic leadership.
The world is a better place because of you.
That is the fulfillment of leadership.
The discovery of your authentic leadership is well on its way as
you become a True North leader. Good luck and Godspeed on your
journey.
EPILOGUE203
bepil.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 203

bepil.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 204

205
Appendix A
RESEARCH STUDY
ON DEVELOPMENT OF
AUTHENTIC LEADERS
Our research question: “How does one become and remain an authen-
tic leader?”
Research Team
Bill George, Professor of Management Practice, Harvard Business
School.
Diana Mayer, MBA, Harvard Business School.
Andrew McLean, Ph.D., Research Associate, Harvard Business
School.
Peter Sims, MBA, Stanford Graduate School of Business.
Definition of “Authentic Leader”
The five dimensions of authentic leadership:
•  Pursuing purpose with passion
•  Practicing solid values
•  Leading with heart
•  Establishing connected relationships
•  Demonstrating self-discipline
Authentic leaders are genuine people who are true to themselves
and to what they believe. Rather than letting the expectations of
others guide them, they are prepared to be their own person and go
bappa.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 205

their own way. As they develop as authentic leaders, they are more
concerned about serving others than they are about their own suc-
cess or recognition. And they are constantly looking for ways to
grow personally. Authentic leaders develop genuine connections
with others and engender trust. Because people trust them, they are
able to motivate people to high levels of performance by empower-
ing them to lead.
Field Interviews
The research was based on field interviews with leaders deemed to
be both authentic and successful. The interviews were conducted
in person, except in a few cases when it was not possible to coordi-
nate logistics for a personal meeting. The interviews lasted on aver-
age seventy-five minutes. All interviews were audio recorded with
the permission of the interviewee in order to preserve the accuracy
of the statements and quotations. Interviews were then profession-
ally transcribed to provide a written record.
All interviews were conducted by Bill George, Diana Mayer, or
Peter Sims between April and November 2005, with the exception
of one preliminary interview conducted in October 2004. In some
cases two of these interviewers participated in the interviews, and
in others Andrew McLean also participated.
The interviewers used a common set of questions, but interview-
ees were permitted to guide the interview to subjects of greatest
importance to them in responding to the questions. In several cases,
time did not permit the entire list of questions to be asked. No sta-
tistical records on the interviewees were established as this was not
the intent of the research project.
A typical interview followed this basic structure:
1. Early Influences and Development (fifteen minutes)
•  Impact of key people and experiences
2. Discovering Authentic Leadership (thirty minutes)
•  Motivations
206TRUE NORTH
bappa.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 206

•  Strongest growth experiences
•  Key turning points
•  Lessons from failures
•  Relevant personal life experiences
3. Approaches to Leadership Development (twenty minutes)
•  Most important practices or resources
•  Maintaining authenticity under pressure
•  Greatest personal challenges
4. Leadership Purpose and Legacy (ten minutes)
•  Purpose of leadership
•  Aspired legacy
Interview Subjects
In total, 125 leaders were selected for the study, based on their rep-
utation for being authentic and successful. An attempt was made to
include a diverse set of people in the interviews. As a result, 28 per-
cent of the interviewees were women, 8 percent were racial minori-
ties,  and  12  percent  were  born  outside  the  United  States.  No
explicit attempt was made to determine religious affiliation or sex-
ual preference, although informal comments suggest diversity along
these dimensions as well.
We looked for a minimum of fifteen interviewees for each age
bracket, with the exception of those over seventy. As it turned out,
the age distribution at the time of interview was
70–9314 (11.2 percent)
60–6918 (14.4 percent)
50–5938 (30.4 percent)
40–4922 (17.6 percent)
30–3918 (14.4 percent)
23–2915 (12.0 percent)
RESEARCH STUDY ON DEVELOPMENT OF AUTHENTIC LEADERS207
bappa.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 207

Selection Criteria
Interviewees were selected based on their perceived authenticity
and established success in leadership roles. In a number of cases
interviewees were recommended by other participants, by acade-
mics engaged in leadership, and by colleagues of the interviewees.
After the interviews were complete, the authenticity of the
interviewees was assessed by the interviewers, using the definition
of an authentic leader stated here and contained in Authentic Lead-
ership.Success in leadership roles was determined by the qualitative
judgment of the research team and not by quantitative measures.
Assessment of Transcripts
Transcripts of the interviews were read multiple times by members
of  the  research  team,  with  individual  summaries  prepared  for
each. Then the interviewees’ responses were categorized by major
topics addressed in each interview. After discussion at frequent
team meetings between May 2005 and March 2006, generalized
conclusions were drawn. These conclusions are presented through-
out this book.
208TRUE NORTH
bappa.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 208

209
Appendix B
AUTHENTIC LEADERS
INTERVIEWED FORTRUE NORTH
Here are the 125 individuals interviewed for this book, by age bracket.
Leaders over Seventy
Warren BennisUniversity Professor and Distinguished
Professor of Business Administration,
University of Southern California
Sir Adrian CadburyChairman, Cadbury Schweppes
(1965–1989)
T. J. Dermot DunphyChairman, Kildare Enterprises LLC;
Chairman and CEO, Sealed Air Corpo-
ration (1971–1999)
Fisher HoweFormer Associate Dean, School of
Advanced International Studies, Johns
Hopkins University
Sidney KnafelManaging Partner, SRK Management
Company; Chairman, Insight Commu-
nications Company, Inc.; Chairman,
Vision Cable Communications, Inc.
(1971–1981)
John MackowskiChairman and CEO, The Atlantic
Mutual Companies (1985–1988)
John MorgridgeChairman, Cisco Systems (1996–2006);
CEO, Cisco Systems (1988–1995)
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 209

Zygmunt NagorskiFounder, Center for International 
Leadership
George ShultzU.S. Secretary of State (1982–1989);
President, Bechtel (1975–1979)
Helmut SihlerChairman, Porsche AG; Chairman
of the Central Board Management,
Henkel KGaA (1980–1992)
John SmaleChairman, General Motors
(1992–1996); Chairman and CEO,
Proctor & Gamble (1981–1990)
Dr. Roy VagelosChairman and CEO, Merck & Co.
(1985–1994)
John WhiteheadCo-chairman, Goldman Sachs
(1976–1984); U.S. Deputy Secretary
of State (1985–1989)
James “Jimmy” Chairman and CEO, SunTrust Banks 
Williams(1985–1998)
Leaders in Their Sixties
Ned BarnholtChairman and CEO, Agilent
(1999–2005)
Richard BraddockPartner, MidOcean Partners, LLP; 
President and COO, Citicorp
(1990–1992)
Bill CampbellChairman and CEO, Intuit
(1994–1998)
Marilyn Carlson Chairman and CEO, Carlson 
NelsonCompanies
Reatha Clark KingChairman, General Mills Foundation
(1998–2002)
David CoxPresident and CEO, Cowles Media
(1981–1998)
210TRUE NORTH
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 210

Ian CummingChairman, Leucadia National 
Corporation
Robert DayChairman and CEO, The TCW
Group, Inc.
Brad FreemanFounder and Partner, Freeman Spogli
& Co.
David GergenDirector, Center for Public Leadership,
Kennedy School of Government; Har-
vard University; White House adviser to
U.S. Presidents Nixon, Ford, Reagan,
and Clinton
Alan HornPresident and COO, Warner Bros.
Jon HuntsmanChairman, Huntsman Corporation
Dick KovacevichChairman and CEO, Wells Fargo
Bowen “Buzz” McCoyAdjunct professor, USC; past Partner,
Morgan Stanley
Jean-Pierre RossoChairman, World Economic Forum
USA; Chairman and CEO, Case-
New Holland (1996–2004)
Robert RyanSenior Vice President and CFO,
Medtronic (1993–2005)
Charles SchwabChairman and CEO, The Charles
Schwab Corporation
Manny VillafanaFounder, Cardiac Pacemakers Inc. 
(now Guidant Corporation), St. Jude
Medical, and ATS Medical
Sam A. WilliamsPresident, Metro Atlanta Chamber
of Commerce
Leaders in Their Fifties
Brenda BarnesChairman and CEO, Sara Lee 
Corporation
AUTHENTIC LEADERS INTERVIEWED FOR TRUE NORTH211
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 211

Nancy BarryPresident, Women’s World Banking
John BrennanChairman and CEO, The Vanguard
Group
Ellen BreyerCEO, Hazelden Foundation
Mike BuhrmannPartner, 1024 Partners, LLC; Founder
and CEO, @mobile
Donald CartyChairman, Virgin America; Chairman
and CEO, American Airlines
(1998–2003)
Lady Lynn Forester Founder and CEO, EL Rothschild, Ltd; 
de RothschildFounder, FirstMark Communications,
U.S. (1995–1997), Europe (1998–2000)
David DillonChairman and CEO, Kroger
Robert FisherChairman, Gap, Inc.
Ann FudgeChairman and CEO, Young & Rubicam
Paul GarciaChairman and CEO, Global Payments
Judy HaberkornPresident, Consumer Sales & Services,
Verizon Communications, Inc.
(1998–2000)
Michelle HooperManaging Partner, The Directors’
Council; past CEO, Voyager Expanded
Learning; Vice President, Baxter
Healthcare
Kris JohnsonManaging Partner, Affinity Capital;
past Senior Vice President, Medtronic
Lois JuliberChief Operating Officer, Colgate-
Palmolive (2000–2004)
David KelleyCofounder and Chairman, IDEO; 
Professor of Design Division, Depart-
ment of Mechanical Engineering, Stan-
ford University
Randy KomisarPartner, Kleiner Perkins Caufield &
Byers; CEO, LucasArts (1994–1995)
212TRUE NORTH
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 212

Per LofbergCEO, Merck Capital Ventures, LLC;
Chairman, Medco Health (1993–2000)
Ellen MarramOperating Advisor, North Castle Part-
ners; President and CEO, Tropicana
(1993–1998)
Gail McGovernProfessor, Harvard Business School;
President, Fidelity Personal Investments
(1998–2002); EVP, Consumer Markets
Division, AT&T (1996–1998)
Ann MooreChairman and CEO, Time, Inc.
Anne MulcahyChairman and CEO, Xerox
N. R. Narayana Cofounder and Chief Mentor, Infosys; 
MurthyChairman and CEO, Infosys
(1981–2002)
Stephanie OdegardPresident, Odegard, Inc.
Joel PetersonLecturer, Stanford Business School;
Managing Partner, Trammell Crow
Company (1988–1991)
Addison “Tad” PiperVice Chairman, Piper Jaffray Compa-
nies; CEO, Piper Jaffray (1983–2000)
David PottruckChairman and CEO, Eos Airlines; 
Co-CEO and then CEO, Charles
Schwab Corporation (1998–2004)
Joe Rogers Jr.Chairman and CEO, Waffle House
Steve RothschildFounder and Chairman, Twin Cities
RISE!; past EVP, General Mills
Jon RoundsChief Operating Officer, Risc
Ventures, LLC
Lewis SandersChairman and CEO,
AllianceBernstein, L.P.
Howard SchultzChairman, Starbucks; CEO, Starbucks
(1987–2000)
AUTHENTIC LEADERS INTERVIEWED FOR TRUE NORTH213
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 213

Kevin SharerChairman and CEO, Amgen
John ThainCEO, New York Stock Exchange
Jim ThompsonFounder and Executive Director, 
Positive Coaching Alliance
Marianne ToldalagiPresident, MCT Associates; SVP and
General Manager, Consumer Travel
Division, American Express
(1995–2000)
Dr. Daniel VasellaChairman and CEO, Novartis AG
Judy VredenburghCEO, Big Brothers Big Sisters of 
America
Leaders in Their Forties
Doug Baker Jr.Chairman and CEO, Ecolab
Mike BakerCEO, Arthrocare
Robert ChessChairman and CEO, Nektar 
Therapeutics
Bruce ChizenCEO, Adobe Systems
Chip ConleyFounder and CEO, Joie de Vivre Hotels
John DonahoePresident, eBay Marketplace; World-
wide Managing Director, Bain & 
Company (1999–2005)
Donna DubinskyCofounder and CEO, Numenta; 
Cofounder and CEO, Handspring
(1998–2003); CEO, Palm, Inc.
(1992–1998)
Mark ErnstChairman and CEO, H&R Block
Mark FeidlerPresident and COO, BellSouth 
Corporation
Fadi GhandourFounder and CEO, Aramex
Andrea JungChairman and CEO, Avon Products
214TRUE NORTH
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 214

Keith KrachFounder and former CEO, Ariba, Inc.
Vanda MarlowZen Hospice Project
Denise O’LearyDirector, Medtronic; former Partner,
Menlo Ventures
Karl-Henrik RobertFounder, The Natural Step
Paula Rosput Reynolds    President and CEO, Safeco Corporation
Louise SamsPresident, Turner Broadcasting System
International
Dan SchulmanCEO, Virgin Mobile USA
Michael SweeneyManaging Director, Goldner-Hawn
Johnson & Morrison
Richard TaitFounder and Grand Poo Bah, Cranium
Kent ThiryChairman and CEO, DaVita
Carol ToméCFO, The Home Depot
Leaders in Their Thirties
Ian ChanFounder and former CEO, U.S.
Genomics
Cesar CondeVice President, Univision
Lisa DaweRegional Operations Director, DaVita
Stephen DeBerryInvestment Director, Omidyar Network
Charles DimmlerGeneral Manager, Geron Corporation
Martha Goldberg-Vice President, Investor Relations, 
AronsonMedtronic
Jamie IrickVice President, General Electric
Wendy KoppPresident and Founder, Teach For
America
Chris LandonDirector, Medtronic Cardiac Rhythm
Management
Bernard LooneyVice President, BP, Plc.
AUTHENTIC LEADERS INTERVIEWED FOR TRUE NORTH215
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 215

Philip McCreaFounder and former President, Vitesse
Learning
Chris O’ConnellPresident, Medtronic Emergency
Response Systems
Michal PetrzelaAssociate, Lightyear Capital
Mark ReynosoSenior Vice President, Sales & 
Marketing, Belkin Corp.
Shailendra SinghVice President, Sequoia Capital India
Ronald SonntagFounder and Chairman, Utah Vacation
Homes
Kristopher WoolleyVice President, Greystar Real Estate
Partners
Sam YaganCofounder and CEO, OkCupid
Leaders in Their Twenties
David DarstCofounder, Potentia Pharmaceuticals
and Cofounder, Medicine in Need
Jonathan DoochinMcKinsey & Company; Founder, 
Harvard Leadership Institute
Julian FlanneryStaff Assistant to CEO, Morgan 
Stanley; Assistant to Chief of Staff,
The White House
Ryan FrederickAssociate, CoastWood Capital Group
Jared HutchingsCofounder and Managing Director, Uni-
versity Venture Fund
Sarah MolloyVice President, Acadian Asset 
Management
Akshata MurthyStudent, Stanford Business School
Kristin OstbyDirector of Central American Opera-
tions, Boys & Girls Hope
James “Than” PowellMarketing, Eli Lilly
216TRUE NORTH
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 216

Margaret Booth Powell   Marketing Manager, Eli Lilly
Daniel SalvadoriAssociate, New Leaf Ventures
Scott StarrManagement Training Program, 
General Electric
Sara StrammielloFounder and Executive Director,
Year Up Providence Office
Nichole TaylorAssistant Product Manager, Frito Lay
Alice WoodwarkMcKinsey & Company
Leaders Profiled from Public Sources
and Personal Discussions
Earl BakkenFounder and former CEO, Medtronic
Lord Browne of Group Chief Executive, BP, Plc.
Madingley
Warren BuffettChairman and CEO, Berkshire 
Hathaway
James BurkeChairman and CEO, Johnson & 
Johnson (1976–1989)
Jeffrey ImmeltChairman and CEO, General Electric
Alan “A.G.” LafleyChairman and CEO, Procter & Gamble
Samuel PalmisanoChairman and CEO, IBM
Henry PaulsonU.S. Secretary of the Treasury; 
Chairman & CEO, Goldman Sachs
(1999–2006)
Oprah WinfreyChairman, Harpo
AUTHENTIC LEADERS INTERVIEWED FOR TRUE NORTH217
bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 217

bappb.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 218

219
Appendix C
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES
FOR EACH CHAPTER
For all of these exercises, you should use a notebook or a journal that you can
keep as a record of them and update them whenever appropriate.
Introduction Exercise:
Your Development as an Authentic Leader
After reading the Introduction, think about the basis for your leadership and the
process you need to go through to become an authentic leader. The following
exercise will get you started.
1.  What leaders, past or present, do you admire most?
•   What is it about them that you admire?
•   Which of these leaders do you consider to be authentic leaders?
•   What can you learn from their leadership?
2.  Thinking back over all your leadership experiences in your lifetime, which
ones are you proudest of?
3.  Think about the basis for your leadership and the kind of leader you would
like to be as you answer these questions:
•   What qualities do you bring to leadership?
•   What leadership qualities would you like to develop further?
4.  Assess yourself against the five dimensions of an authentic leader:
•   Do you understand your purpose?
•   Do you practice your values?
•   Do you lead with your heart?
•   Do you establish connected relationships?
•   Do you demonstrate self-discipline?
5.  Do you feel that you are more effective as a leader when you are authentic,
or does being authentic constrain your leadership effectiveness?
6.  Are you consciously developing your leadership abilities at this time?
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 219

Chapter One Exercise: Your Story
and Journey to Authentic Leadership
After reading Chapter One, it’s important to examine your life story and leader-
ship opportunities to this point, with an emphasis on the influences of your early
years and instances of your leadership.
Discover Your Leadership in Your Life Story
1.  During your early years, which people had the greatest impact on you?
2.  Starting with your earliest memories, which experiences marked key turn-
ing points in your life?
3.  In which experiences did you find the greatest inspiration and passion for
your leadership?
4.  Looking at patterns from your early life story, what people, events, and
experiences have had the greatest impact on you and your life?
5.  Can you identify instances where you were dissatisfied with your leadership
or received constructive feedback from others about it?
6.  Has there been an instance in your life where you have felt like a victim?
7.  Do the failures or disappointments you experienced earlier in your life con-
strain you, even today, or have you been able to reframe them as learning
experiences?
The Journey to Authentic Leadership
1.  Do you currently view your life and leadership as a destination to a certain
point or as a journey in which you seek to maximize your learning and
experiences?
2.  What are the most significant leadership experiences you have had to date
and what did you learn from them?
3.  What experiences do you need to develop your leadership to take it to the
next level?
4.  If you are just entering a new phase, have you assessed the goals and experi-
ences you would like to have during the phase?
5.  Do you think you need to make any adjustments to your personal and lead-
ership development as a result? If so, what are they?
6.  How can you take your previous experiences and apply them more opti-
mally to your leadership now?
220TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 220

Chapter Two Exercise:
The Risk of Losing Your Way
After reading Chapter Two, think carefully about whether you see any of your-
self in each of the five archetypes of leaders who lose their way and get derailed.
In completing the exercise, be honest with yourself and attempt to see yourself as
others see you.
Why Leaders Lose Their Way
Think through the underlying reasons why so many leaders in the recent past
have lost their way and wound up failing as leaders.
1.  Have you seen leaders lose their way or worked with someone who fits any
of the archetypes particularly well?
2.  What are the behaviors and warning signals you have seen in others at risk
of losing their way?
Derailment
Referring back to the five archetypes that lead to derailment:
1.  Can you see any of the qualities of the Imposter in yourself?
2.  Can you see any of the qualities of the Rationalizer in yourself?
3.  Can you see any of the qualities of the Glory Seeker in yourself?
4.  Can you see any of the qualities of the Loner in yourself?
5.  Can you see any of the qualities of the Shooting Star in yourself?
Losing Your Way
1.  Can you envision a situation in which you could lose your way in the
future?
2.  To what extent are you prepared to go your own way and be your own per-
son, despite external pressure?
3.  Do you have a fear of failing? In what ways? Is it because you are afraid of
what other people would think about you? Is it personal pride?
4.  How is your fear of failing impacting your decisions about leadership and
your career? Are you consciously or unconsciously avoiding situations in
which there is a risk of failing?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER221
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 221

5.  How could the experience of failing help you achieve your ultimate goals?
6.  In what ways do you crave success?
7.  How is your craving for success impacting your decisions about leadership
and your career? Are you consciously or unconsciously choosing situations
that give you a high probability of success?
Prevention
1.  What steps can you take to prevent being derailed during your career?
222TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 222

Chapter Three Exercise: 
Your Greatest Crucible
After reading Chapter Three, think back over your life and recall the expe-
rience that involved the greatest pressure, stress, or adversity.
1.  Write freely about your greatest crucible and describe it in the following
ways:
•   How did you feel at the time?
•   What resources did you call upon?
•   How did you resolve the issues, if you have?
•   How did it shape you and your views about the world?
2.  Describe any relationships, such as those with mentors, that had a transfor-
mative effect on you and your leadership. What did you learn from that
relationship and how did it shape who you are?
3.  Describe any other experiences that triggered significant leadership devel-
opment.
•   In looking back on these experiences, what did you learn from them?
•   In what ways have they helped you to grow?
4.  How can you use these experiences to reframe your life story and to under-
stand yourself and your life more fully? Are there ways in which these
experiences are holding you back today?
5.  Transformation from “I” to “We.”
•   Are you on “the hero’s journey”? Do you ever see yourself as the hero
of your own journey?
•   Have you made the transformation from “I” to “We”? If so, what
triggered this transformation for you?
•   If you have not yet made this transformation, what would have to
happen in your life and leadership for a transformation like this to
occur?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER223
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 223

Chapter Four Exercise: 
Knowing Your Authentic Self
After reading Chapter Four, this exercise will help develop your self-awareness
by assessing your leadership strengths, your shortcomings, and your develop-
ment needs.
Basic Self-Awareness Assessment:
The following questions will allow you to compare your evaluation of yourself
with how others view you. Rate yourself from 1 to 10 (with 10 being “Very,”
5 being “Moderately,” and 1 being “Barely”) then support your assessment by
answering each question. Then choose two people who know you well to rate you
using the same scale and provide their assessments.
Feedback    Feedback    
Self-              1                2              
Rating        Rating        Rating        
Question(1–10)(1–10)(1–10)
How self-confident are you?
How aware are you of your moods and emo-
tions?
How effective are you in regulating your moods
to minimize their impact on other people?
When confronted with situations that are dis-
pleasing to you, how well do you take the time
to think clearly about them before responding 
or reacting?
When you receive critical feedback from oth-
ers, how well are you able to take in the feed-
back and respond in a constructive manner
without acting defensively?
How well do you understand the emotional
makeup of others and their needs?
How sensitive are you in relating to others’
needs and helping them?
How skillful are you in building lasting 
relationships?
224TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 224

How well do you network with others and cre-
ate networks of people with common interests?
How effective are you in leading teams?
Do others follow your lead voluntarily?
How persuasive are you in convincing others of
your mutual interests?
After reviewing the feedback, to what extent do you see yourself as others see
you? How strong is your basic self-awareness right now?
Strengths and Development Areas
1.  What are your strongest capabilities or talents?
2.  What are your strongest attributes as a leader?
3.  What are your greatest needs for development as a leader?
Needs
1.  Do you need structure in your job? To what extent are you comfortable
with ambiguity and change?
2.  What level of financial security will allow you to feel comfortable?
3.  To what extent do you need to be leading a team?
4.  How much time do you need with your family or loved ones each week?
5.  How much personal time do you need each week to recharge?
Your Authentic Self
1.  What are your vulnerabilities, blind spots, and shadow sides?
2.  To what extent do you use defensive armor as a shield to protect yourself
from exposing your vulnerabilities with others?
3.  How can you become more comfortable in sharing your vulnerabilities
with others?
4.  How comfortable are you with who you are right now?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER225
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 225

Chapter Five Exercise:
Practicing Your Values and Principles
In this exercise, you have the opportunity to set forth the values, leadership prin-
ciples, and ethical boundaries that will guide your leadership as an authentic
leader. The intent of this exercise is to be explicit about the values that are
important to you, the principles you will use in leading, and the ethical bound-
aries that you will adhere to, even under great pressure.
Values
1.  List the values that are important to your life and your leadership. After you
have done so, go back and rank them in order of their importance to you.
•   Which of your values are inviolate?
•   Which ones are desirable but not mandatory?
•   Do some of your values depend upon the situation that you are facing?
2.  Recall a personal situation in which your values conflicted with each other.
•   How did you resolve this conflict?
•   How pleased were you with the outcome?
3.  Recall a situation in which your values were tested under pressure.
•   To what extent did you deviate from your values under that pressure?
•   What resources did you call upon under this pressure?
•   What would you do differently if you had it do all over again?
Principles and Boundaries
1.  List the leadership principles you use (or want to use) in leading others.
Then go back and rank-order them depending on which are most impor-
tant to you.
2.  List the ethical boundaries that you will not cross. Then rank-order them
in terms of their importance to you.
3.  Recall a situation in which you deviated from your True North and your
values in order to achieve your goals.
•   How will you handle this situation if you face it in the future?
•   How can you sense “the slippery slope” of minor deviations leading
to major ones later on?
•   When you find yourself being pulled away from your True North,
how do you get back on track?
226TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 226

Chapter Six Exercise: Your Motivations
and Motivated Capabilities
The following exercise provides you with the opportunity to understand your
motivations. After completing the sections on your motivations, you can explore
ways in which you can mesh your motivations with your capabilities to find your
sweet spot—that zone where you are able to use your abilities to the fullest and
where you are highly motivated. This sweet spot may reveal valuable insights
about your career and life choices.
1.  What is motivating you to be a leader?
2.  What are your sources of motivation?
3.  What are your extrinsic motivations? Note them on the following chart
with a check mark. After you have completed the list, rank-order your
greatest extrinsic motivations (from 1 to 5, with 1 being the greatest).
ObservedRank Order
1.  Monetary compensation
2.  Having power
3.  Having a title
4.  Public recognition
5.  Social status
6.  Winning over others
7.  Being associated with prestigious institutions
8.  Other: 
4.  What are the traps set by your extrinsic motivations that you could foresee
yourself falling into? What are you doing to avoid these traps?
5.  What are your intrinsic motivations? Please note them below with a check
mark. After you have completed the list, rank-order your greatest intrinsic
motivations.
ObservedRank Order
1.  Personal growth and development
2.  Satisfaction of doing a good job 
3.  Helping others 
4.  Leading and organizing others
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER227
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 227

ObservedRank Order
5.  Being associated with people you care about
6.  Finding meaning from your efforts 
7.  Being true to your beliefs
8.  Making a difference in the world
9.  Having influence on others
10.  Other:
6.  Conflicts between extrinsic and intrinsic motivations:
•   Recall and then list one or more instances in which your extrinsic
motivations conflicted with your intrinsic motivations. What did
you do?
•   How did you go about resolving these conflicts?
•   What steps can you take to balance your extrinsic and intrinsic
motivations?
7.  Your motivations (in rank order):
Combine your lists of extrinsic and intrinsic motivations and rank-order
those that most highly motivate you today from 1 to 5, with 1 being the
greatest motivation. Put an asterisk next to those that are intrinsic
motivations.
8.  Your capabilities:
List your capabilities or your strengths. Then rank-order your five
strongest capabilities today from 1 to 5, with 1 being your greatest
capability.
9.  Your developmental areas:
Compile a list of your developmental needs, as you see them today.
Then rank-order them from 1 to 5, with 1 being your greatest
developmental need.
10.  Your motivated capabilities: Make a list of your motivated capabilities—
the areas where you are both highly motivated and very capable. 
11.  Using your motivated capabilities: Make a list of future situations that you
can envision that would enable you to apply your motivated capabilities
and then rank-order them from 1 to 5, with 1 being the best use of your
motivated capabilities.
228TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 228

Chapter Seven Exercise:
Building Your Support Team
After reading Chapter Seven, this exercise will allow you to prioritize the impor-
tant relationships in your life today and the kind of support team you would like
to build.
1.  Current and past relationships: Make a list of the most important relation-
ships in your life, right now and in the past.
•   What is your most important relationship?
•   Why is this person important to you? In what ways do you look to
this person for support?
2.  Your family of origin:
•   What role has your family of origin played in your life and
specifically in your development as a leader?
3.  Relationships with teachers, coaches, or advisers: Have you had a particular
teacher, coach, or adviser who has been influential in your interest in leader-
ship and your development as a leader?
4.  Mentors:
•   Who are the people who have mentored you in your leadership
development?
•   Which mentors have been most important in your development as
a leader?
•   In what ways have they helped you develop?
•   How have you helped your mentor and built a two-way relationship?
•   What more can you bring to your mentoring relationships?
5.  Friends:
•   In what ways have your friends helped you become a better leader?
•   Which of your friends could you count on if things did not go well
for you?
•   Do you have friends with whom you can share the challenges you
face openly? Can you give each other honest feedback?
•   Describe a relationship that has been mutually beneficial to you over
an extended period of time. What qualities did you bring to the
relationship that made it meaningful and enduring?
•   Describe a relationship that did not work out for you for which you
feel some degree of responsibility. What would you do differently if
you had the opportunity to do it over again?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER229
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 229

6.  Personal support group:
•   Do you have a personal support group? If so, what is its value and
meaning to you and your leadership?
•   If you have never had such a group, would you like to form one? If so,
what kind of people would you like to have in your group?
7.  Professional support network:
•   Do you have a professional support network or would you like to
build one?
•   What would such a network look like for you?
•   Who are some of the people you would like to have in your network?
8.  Personal board of directors:
•   Would you like to create a personal board of directors? If so, what types
of people you would like to have on your board?
•   Who specifically would you like to be part of your board?
•   How would you use your board? What would you contribute to your
board members?
230TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 230

Chapter Eight Exercise: 
The Integrated Leader
In this exercise you will examine how you can bring together all aspects of your
life into an integrated whole so that you can live your life with integrity. The
underlying belief here is by bringing together all aspects of your life into an inte-
grated whole, you will be a more effective leader and have a more satisfying and
fulfilling life.
Personal Life
1.  What is most important to you in your personal life?
2.  In what ways do you set time aside for yourself and your personal develop-
ment?
3.  In what ways do you nurture your inner life?
4.  Optional: Do you have a regular religious or spiritual practice? In what
ways does it contribute to your having an integrated life?
Family Life
1.  What are the most important aspects of your family life?
2.  In what ways will your life and time commitments change as you take on
additional family commitments?
3.  How do you manage the time requirements and conflicts?
Friendships and Community
1.  In what ways do friendships enable you to lead a more integrated life? How
much time do you devote to developing and nurturing your friendships?
2.  Is your community an integral part of your life?
3.  In what ways do you serve your community?
4.  How can community service help you become a better 
leader?
5.  In what ways would you like to serve your community in the future?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER231
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 231

Professional Life
1.  What do you do to ensure that you stay grounded professionally?
2.  In what ways do your family life, personal life, friendships, and community
life add to or detract from your professional life?
3.  How do you cope with the seductions and pressures of professional life and
still stay focused on your True North?
Making Choices and Trade-Offs
1.  What is the most difficult choice or trade-off between various aspects of
your life that you have made in the past? What would you do differently in
the future?
2.  What is the most difficult trade-off or choice that you are facing right now?
3.  How will you balance the time requirements of each part of your life?
Measuring Your Success
1.  How do you measure success in your life right now? What is your personal
scorecard?
2.  What are the long-term achievements you would like to realize in your life?
3.  What will bring you the greatest amount of happiness in your life?
4.  What is the positive impact on others that you would like to have?
Integrating Your Life
Think of your life as a house with a bedroom for your personal life, a study for
your professional life, a family room for your family, and a living room to share
with your friends.
1.  Can you knock down the walls between these rooms and be the same per-
son in each of them?
2.  Are you able to be the same authentic person in each environment, or do
you behave differently at work than you do at home, with your friends, or
in the community?
232TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 232

Chapter Nine Exercise: The Purpose
of My Leadership
In this exercise, you will focus on the purpose of your leadership and how
your purpose is derived from your life story, your passions, and your motivated
capabilities.
Discerning Your Passions 
Through Your Life Story
Recall your early life story (addressed in the exercises for Chapter One and
Chapter Three) and use it to identify sources of your passions that are close to
your heart.
1.  By reframing your life story, can you discern your passions more clearly?
2.  In what ways do your passions lead you to the purpose of your leadership?
The Purpose of Your Leadership
Write an essay to yourself describing the long-term purpose of your leadership.
1.  For the near term, what is your purpose in leading?
2.  In what ways does the purpose of your leadership relate to the rest of your
life? Is it integral to it or separate from it?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER233
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 233

Chapter Ten Exercise: 
Empowering Other Leaders
After you read Chapter Ten, this exercise will help you empower other leaders.
Leadership Relationships
Leadership relationships can take many forms. The following is a list of the roles
leaders play in developing relationships with others in their organization. Please
assess your effectiveness in each type of leadership relationship (from 1–10, with 10 being
“Very Well,” 5 being “Satisfactory,” and 1 being “Poorly”).Put a check mark next
to those items you would like to focus on for improvement and an asterisk next
to those items that are your strengths.
Rating (1–10)StrengthNeeds Improvement
DirectingGiving people directions about work 
to be done
OrganizingOrganizing people to get things done
DelegatingGiving others authority and responsibility
PersuadingConvincing others of your point 
of view
ListeningHearing clearly what others are saying
MotivatingInspiring people to achieve the task 
EmpoweringEncouraging others to reach their 
potential 
DiscussingTalking through different points of view 
LearningGaining understanding through others 
TeachingTransmitting understanding to others 
AdvisingCounseling others on their challenges 
CoachingGuiding others accomplishing their tasks 
MentoringHelping others grow as leaders 
FollowingFollowing the leadership of others 
1.  What are your greatest strengths in establishing relationships?
2.  What areas do you intend to improve upon?
234TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 234

Leadership Relationships in the Workplace
Describe the kinds of leadership relationships you have in the workplace with
your superiors, peers, subordinates, and external constituencies.
1.  Bosses: What kind of relationship do you have with your boss? How could
you make it better?
2.  Peers: What kind of relationship do you have with your peers at work?
3.  Subordinates: What kind of relationships would you like to have with your
subordinates? How could they be improved?
4.  Organizational networking: How effective are you in building a network
of relationships in your organization? What can you do to improve your
networking?
Empowering Other Leaders
1.  Describe an example from your past where you have been effective in
inspiring other leaders around a common purpose and shared values.
2.  How effective are you today at empowering other people to step up and
lead? How do you go about doing this? What are you doing to improve
your effectiveness?
3.  Recall a situation in which you faced a conflict between empowering other
people and reaching your performance goals.
•   How did you resolve the conflict?
•   Did you give preference to reaching your goals or to your
relationships?
•   Would you act differently in the future when facing a conflict
between relationships and performance?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER235
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 235

Chapter Eleven Exercise: Honing Your
Leadership Effectiveness
The following exercise will allow you to examine ways to improve your effec-
tiveness as a leader, including your use of flexible leadership styles and power
in your relationships. Refer back to the definitions of leadership style in Chap-
ter Eleven and Table 11.1, “Leadership Style and Power Grid.”
1.  Preferred leadership style:
•   What is your preferred leadership style?
•   Why is it your preferred style?
•   Which of your skills does it use?
•   In what situations do you use your preferred style?
•   Is your style consistent with your leadership principles and values? Is
it ever inconsistent?
•   What are you doing to improve your preferred style?
2.  Backup style:
Your backup style is one you often revert to when you are under pressure or
when you find your preferred style is not working.
•   What is your backup leadership style?
•   In what situations do you revert to your backup style?
•   Which of your leadership skills does your backup style use?
•   As compared to your primary style, what are the negative
consequences of your backup style? What are the positives?
3.  Flexible leadership styles:
•   What are your flexible leadership styles?
•   In what situations do you use each of them?
•   What leadership skills does each of your flexible styles require?
•   How do you adapt your leadership style to the circumstances facing
you?
•   How do you adapt your leadership style to the readiness of your team
to take on greater leadership?
•   How can you use flexible styles and still be authentic?
4.  Using power:
•   What is the role of power in your leadership?
•   How do you gain power or influence within your group?
•   How do you use power effectively in leading others?
236TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 236

•   Think of an example in which you used your power over others with
negative consequences. How did people respond?
•   What went wrong? What would you do differently if you had it to do
over again?
•   How do you respond to powerful people that use their power over
you? What is the most appropriate way to deal with very powerful
people?
•   What can you do to avoid being overpowered?
•   How can you avoid giving away your personal power to powerful
people?
5.  Leadership effectiveness:
•   Describe the ways in which you plan to change your leadership in
order to improve your effectiveness as a leader.
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER237
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 237

Epilogue Exercise: Your Personal
Leadership Development Plan
The Personal Leadership Development Plan is the culmination of the exercises.
It is your plan that you can use to guide your development. Used optimally, it can
be a dynamic plan that you update on a regular basis to reflect your leadership
experiences and changes in your thinking about your development.
Take several hours to complete the plan, integrating the exercises you have
done with appropriate revisions in your thinking.
1.  Your True North:
•   Write an essay to yourself, answering the question, “What is your
True North?” How do you know when you are following it?
2.  Intellectual development:
•   In what ways will you endeavor to deepen your intellect?
•   In what ways will you broaden your intellect?
•   What are the areas in which you would like to read and study?
•   What are the places you would like to live in or visit as part of your
development?
3.  Personal discipline and stress management:
•   Describe your plan for healthy eating.
•   Describe your personal exercise plan.
•   What are your sleep requirements? To what extent do you deviate
from them?
•   Describe the practices you use to manage your stress, referring to the
following areas:
Meditating or sitting quietly
Running or walking
Exercising, working out, or competitive games
Yoga or similar practice
Prayer or reflection
Talking to spouse, friend, or mentor
Listening to music
Watching TV or going to movies
Other
4.  Values, leadership principles, and ethical boundaries:
•   In order of importance, what are the values that are most important to
you? (Mark those values that you consider inviolate with an asterisk.)
238TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 238

•   What are the principles on which you base your leadership?
•   What are the ethical boundaries that will guide your professional
life?
5.  Your motivations and motivated capabilities:
•   What are your extrinsic motivations?
•   What are your intrinsic motivations?
•   Make a list in rank order of your overall motivations.
•   What are your greatest capabilities?
•   What are your developmental needs?
•   What are your motivated capabilities?
•   What leadership situations optimize the use of your motivated
capabilities?
6.  Personal reflections:
•   What do you do to be reflective or introspective?
•   What are your spiritual or religious practices?
•   If you don’t believe in such practices, how do you address life’s
existential questions?
•   What do you intend to do to strengthen your practices?
7.  Building relationships:
•   Who are the most important people in your life?
•   Who do you feel you can be completely open with?
•   When you are distressed, who do you turn to?
•   Who are your mentors?
•   Which of your personal friends do you look to for counsel and
advice?
•   Who do you look to for professional advice and counsel?
•   In what ways do you network with professional colleagues?
•   Would you like to form a support group? How will you go about it?
8.  Leadership style:
•   What is your preferred leadership style?
•   What leadership style do you revert to under pressure? What are you
doing to avoid reverting to this style?
•   In what ways are you developing your ability to use flexible styles?
•   How are you developing your ability to adapt your style to the
situation you are facing and the capabilities of your teammates?
•   In what ways are you developing your ability to use your power more
effectively?
LEADERSHIP EXERCISES FOR EACH CHAPTER239
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 239

9.  Leadership development:
•   What are the experiences you need to develop your leadership?
10.  Integration:
•   How are you going to integrate your personal life, family life,
friendships, and community life with your professional life to become
a better leader?
•   What sacrifices and trade-offs are you prepared to make to achieve
your professional and personal goals?
11.  Leadership purpose and legacy:
•   What is the purpose of your leadership?
•   How does your purpose relate to your True North, your life story, and
your passions?
•   What kind of legacy would you like to leave in terms of
Your family
Your career
Your friends
Your community
12.  Write an essay about what you would like to be able to say about your life
story and your leadership at the end of your life and where you hope to find
fulfillment from being an authentic leader.
240TRUE NORTH
bappc.qxp  1/17/07  8:26 PM  Page 240

241
References
Introduction
“America’s Best Leaders.” US News & World Report,Oct. 2006.
Collins, J. “Level 5 Leadership: The Triumph of Humility and Fierce
Resolve.” Harvard Business Review,July–Aug. 2005, p. 10.
George, B. Authentic Leadership.San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2003, pp. 18–25.
George, B., and McLean, A. Kevin Sharer at Amgen: Sustaining the High-
Growth Company.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing,
2006.
George, B., Mayer, D., and McLean, A. Wendy Kopp and Teach For America.
Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
James, W. Letters of William James.Vol. 1 (1878).
Medtronic Mission Statement. Available online: www.medtronic.com/
corporate/mission.html. 
O’Reilly, C. “Leadership and Management: A Brief History of the Research.”
Unpublished presentation by Professor Charles O’Reilly, Stanford
Business School, 2005, p. 9.
Chapter One
Barth, John. Where Three Roads Meet.Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 2005,
p. 80.
Bartlett, C., and McLean, A. GE’s Talent Machine: The Making of a CEO.
Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 2003.
Clark, T. “Thoroughly Starbucked.” Willamette Week,May 26, 2004. “Few
people love pouring coffee all day, but these perks have made
Starbucks’ annual turnover rate just 60 percent, compared with
an industry average of 200 percent.”
Erikson, E. Childhood and Society.(Reissue ed.) New York: Norton, 1993.
George, B., and McLean, A. Howard Schultz: Building Starbucks Community.
Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 241

George, B., and McLean, A. Martha Goldberg Aronson: Leadership Decisions at
Mid-Career.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
John Barth quote—from a conversation Barth had with Warren Bennis.
Research interview with Warren Bennis, July 2005.
Schultz, H., and Yang, D. J. Pour Your Heart Into It.New York: Hyperion, 1999.
Timmons, H. “As BP Profit Soars, Browne Sets Last Day.” International
Herald Tribune,July 25, 2006.
Chapter Two
Daniel Vasella quoted by Clifford Leaf in Fortune,Nov. 18, 2001.
Davis, A. “Closing Bell: How Tide Turned Against Purcell in Struggle at
Morgan Stanley.” Wall Street Journal,June 14, 2005.
Davis, A. “Mack, Back by Popular Demand.” Wall Street Journal,July 1, 
2005.
Davis, A., and Smith, R. “Delayed Reaction: At Morgan Stanley, Board
Slowly Faced Its Purcell Problem.” Wall Street Journal,Aug. 5, 
2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Richard Grasso and the NYSE, Inc. (A).Boston:
Harvard Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Kevin Sharer at Amgen: Sustaining the High-
Growth Company.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing,
2006.
McLean, B. “Brahmins at the Gate.” Fortune,May 2, 2005.
Mulcahy, A. Address at Harvard Business School, Spangler Auditorium,
Apr. 4, 2005.
Thomas, L., Jr. “Exile from Wall Street.” New York Times,Aug. 21, 2005.
Chapter Three
“America’s Best Leaders.” US News & World Report,Oct. 2006.
Bennis, W., and Thomas, R. Geeks and Geezers: How Era, Values, and
Defining Moments Shape Leaders.Boston: Harvard Business School
Press, 2002.
Coelho, P. The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream.(Reprint ed.)
San Francisco: HarperCollins, 1995.
George, B. Profile of Steve Rothschild . . . In His Own Words.Boston: Harvard
Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Marilyn Carlson Nelson and the Carlson
Companies’ Renaissance. Boston: Harvard Business School
Publishing, 2005.
242REFERENCES
bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 242

Mandela, N. Long Walk to Freedom: The Autobiography of Nelson Mandela.
Boston: Little, Brown, 1994.
Oprah Winfrey information taken from her interview for the American
Academy of Achievement. Available online: www.achievement.org/
autodoc/page/win0int-1.
Chapter Four
“America’s Best Leaders.” US News & World Report,Oct. 2006.
Delphic Oracle. Inscription on the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, Greece, sixth
century 
B.C.The Columbia World of Quotations,1996. The words
are traditionally ascribed to the “Seven Sages” or “Seven Wise
Men” of ancient Greece and specifically to Solon of Athens
(c. 640–c. 558 B.C.).
George, B., and McLean, A. Tad Piper and Piper Jaffray.Boston: Harvard
Business School Publishing, 2005.
Goleman, D. Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ.New
York: Bantam Books, 1995.
Reingold, J. “The Fall and Rise of David Pottruck.” Fast Company,Sept.
2005, p. 56.
“2006 CEO of the Year.” Chief Executive Magazine,Apr./May 2006.
Whyte, D. Where Many Rivers Meet.Many Rivers Press, 1990.
Chapter Five
Jim Burke quotes from visit to Harvard Business School, 1994.
George, B., Singh, S., and McLean, A. Narayana Murthy and Compassionate
Capitalism.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2005.
Huntsman, J. Winners Never Cheat: Everyday Values We Learned as Children.
Philadelphia: Wharton School Press, 2005.
Palmisano, S. “The Globally Integrated Enterprise.” Foreign Affairs,
May/June 2006.
Chapter Six
The concept of integrating one’s motivations with one’s abilities originated
in the System for Identifying Motivated Abilities. Available online:
http://www.sima.co.uk.
John W. Gardner quote from interview Gardner had with Warren Bennis.
Research interview with Warren Bennis, July 2005.
REFERENCES243
bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 243

Chapter Seven
George, B., and McLean, A. Tad Piper and Piper Jaffray.Boston: Harvard
Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Anne Mulcahy: Leading Xerox Through the Perfect
Storm (A).Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
George, B., and McLean, A. Howard Schultz: Building Starbucks Community.
Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
Chapter Eight
Anders, G. “Are You on the Right Track? Part 2.” Fast Company,Nov. 2000.
George, B., and McLean, A. Philip McCrea: Once an Entrepreneur . . .
Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
Anne Mulcahy. Address at Harvard Business School, Spangler Auditorium,
Apr. 4, 2005.
Chapter Nine
George, B. Profile of Steve Rothschild . . . In His Own Words.Boston: Harvard
Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., Mayer, D., and McLean, A. Andrea Jung: Empowering Avon
Women.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
George, B., Singh, S., and McLean, A. Narayana Murthy and Compassionate
Capitalism.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2005.
Oliver, M. New and Selected Poems: Volume 1.Boston: Beacon Press, 1992.
Chapter Ten
Class discussion, IMD International, Lausanne, Switzerland, Apr. 2003.
George, B., and McLean, A. Marilyn Carlson Nelson and the Carlson
Companies’ Renaissance.Boston: Harvard Business School
Publishing, 2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Anne Mulcahy: Leading Xerox Through the Perfect
Storm (A).Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
George, B., and McLean, A. Anne Mulcahy: Leading Xerox Through the Perfect
Storm (B).Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
George, B., and McLean, A. Martha Goldberg Aronson: Leadership Decisions at
Mid-Career.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2006.
Morris, B. “The Accidental CEO.” Fortune,June 23, 2003, p. 58.
244REFERENCES
bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 244

Chapter Eleven
George, B., and McLean, A. John Whitehead: A Life in Leadership.Boston:
Harvard Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., Singh, S., and McLean, A. Narayana Murthy and Compassionate
Capitalism.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2005.
George, B., and McLean, A. Kevin Sharer at Amgen: Sustaining the High-
Growth Company.Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing,
2006.
Leaders’ style categories and definitions are adapted from Goleman, D.,
“Leadership That Gets Results.”Harvard Business Review,Mar.–Apr.
2000.
Epilogue
Roosevelt, T. “The Man in the Arena.” Speech at the Sorbonne, Paris,
France, Apr. 23, 1910.
Appendixes
Elements of “Knowing Your Authentic Self ” Exercise: Goleman, D. “What
Makes a Leader?” Harvard Business Review,Jan. 2004.
“Honing Your Leadership Effectiveness” Exercise: The leaders’ style cate-
gories and definitions are taken from: Goleman, D. “Leadership
That Gets Results.” Harvard Business Review,Mar.–Apr. 2000.
“Your Greatest Crucible” Exercise: Bennis, W., and Thomas, R. “Crucibles of
Leadership.” Harvard Business Review,Sept. 2002.
“Your Motivations and Motivated Capabilities” Exercise: The concept of
integrating motivations with capabilities used in this exercise origi-
nated in the System for Identifying Motivated Abilities, but the
exercise itself is entirely that of the authors.
REFERENCES245
bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 245

bref.qxp  1/17/07  8:28 PM  Page 246

A
Accepting yourself, 82–83
Acknowledging mistakes, 100
Alchemist, The, 43
Aligning around a mission, 180–181
Allen, Woody, 177
Amgen, 39–41
Archetypes: Glory Seekers; 34–35;
Imposters, 33; Loners, 35; Rationaliz-
ers, 34; Shooting Stars, 35–36
Aronson, Martha Goldberg, 22–23,
179–180
Authentic leaders: defined, 205–206;
development of, 15–25, 219; effective-
ness of, 152f
Avoiding traps, 109–111
Avon Products, 153–158
B
Baker, Doug, 53–55, 112
Baker, Mike, 31
Bakken, Earl, 62, 102
Balance, 137; balancing motivations,
111–112. See alsointegrated life
Bankruptcy, 95–96
Barnes, Brenda, 87, 146
Barnholt, Ned, 71
Barry, Nancy, 68
Barth, John, 14–15
Bennis, Warren, 25, 34; balance, 137; cru-
cibles, 46; finding his sweet spot, 114;
learning from others, 175; mentoring,
124–125; personal support groups,
128–129 
Binder, Gordon, 39
Blind spots, 78
Board of directors, personal, 131
Bower, Marvin, 38
Brennan, Jack, 15–16, 126
Breyer, Ellen, 10–12
Browne, John (Lord), 24
Buckets of your life, 139–141. See also
integrated life
Buffet, Warren, 175
Building your support team, 229–230
Burke, Jim, 86, 191
Burns, Ursula, 172, 173
C
Campbell, Bill, 122–124, 144, 195
Carlson Companies, 58–59, 181–184
Carty, Don, 70, 107
Center for International Leadership, 25
CEO, leadership after, 25–26
Challenging leaders, 179
Chan, Ian, 19–21
Charles Schwab, 72–76
Chess, Rob, 130
Chizen, Bruce, 70, 122–124, 195
Choices, 137–139
Ciba-Geigy, 48
Claris Software, 122–123
Coelho, Paul, 43
Collins, Art, 25
Community, as part of an integrated life,
146–147
Complementary skills, 71
Conde, Cesar, 107–108
Conflicting values, 90–91
Connecting with others, 71
Consensus leadership, 187–190
Consistency, 70
Contrasting mentors, 125–126
Cox, Dave, 110–111
Craving success, 30–31
247
Index
bindex.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 247

Crucibles, 46, 223
Crystal Dynamics, 79, 160
Csikszentmihalyi, Mihaly, 112–113
D
Darst, David, 138
Dawe, Lisa, 147
De Rothschild, Lynn Forester, 68
Delegating, 55
Derailment, 221
Development plan as a leader exercise,
238–240
Dillon, Dave, 78, 125–126, 165–166
Donahoe, Eileen, 133–137
Donahoe, John, 16, 130, 146; integrated
life, 133–137; measuring success, 147;
spending time with family, 121
Doochin, Jonathan, 18–19
Dubinsky, Donna, 110, 122–124, 195;
intrinsic motivations, 108; motivated
capabilities, 113–114
Dunn, Debra, 71, 109, 120, 145
Dunphy, Dermot, 139, 147–148
E
Ecolab, 53–55
Effectiveness, optimizing, 186–190,
198–200
Emotional intelligence, 68–69
Empowering others: building an empow-
ered culture, 181–184; exercise,
234–235; to lead, 43–46, 176–184;
through a crisis, 170–174; through
mutual respect, 174–176
Engaging people, 178
EQ. Seeemotional intelligence
Erikson, Erik, 17
Ethical boundaries, 86–87, 101
Exercises: Chapter 1, 220; Chapter 2,
221–222; Chapter 3, 223; Chapter 4,
224–225; Chapter 5, 226; Chapter 6,
227–228; Chapter 7, 229–230; Chap-
ter 8, 231–232; Chapter 9, 233; Chap-
ter 10, 234–235; Chapter 11, 236–237;
Epilogue, 238–240; Introduction, 219
External validations, 109
Extrinsic motivations, 106–107; balanc-
ing with intrinsic motivations, 112
F
Failure: fearing, 29–30; turning into suc-
cess, 31–32
Families: as part of a support team,
120–121; staying grounded with, 142
Family life, exercise in integrating, 231
Feedback, 53–56
Fisher, Bob, 108–109
Flannery, Julian, 121
Frederick, Ryan, 120
Friends: as part of a support team,
126–128; as part of an integrated life,
146–147, 231
Fry, Chuck, 125–126
Fudge, Ann, 21, 110, 138, 164
Fulfillment of leadership, 201–203
G
Gardner, John, 52–53, 115
Geeks and Geezers, 46
General Mills, 56
Generativity, 17
George, Penny, 160–162
Gergen, David, 87–90
Gerstner, Lou, 101
Getting back on track, 36–41
Ghandour, Fadi, 142
Giuliani, Rudy, 186
Giving back, 24–25
Glory seekers, 33, 34–35
Goleman, Daniel, 68
Grasso, Richard, 29
H
Haberkorn, Judy, 77–78, 100
Haldeman, Bob, 93–94
Hawkins, Jeff, 114
Hazeldon Foundation, 10, 11–12
Helping teammates, 178–179
Heroes, 36
Hitting the wall, 23–24, 57
Honing your leadership effectiveness
exercise, 236–237
Honeywell, 61
Hooper, Michelle, 162–163
Horn, Alan, 109, 142, 145
Huntsman, Jon, 91–97
I
IBM, 101–102
Illness, 57–58
Immelt, Jeff, 23–24, 179
Imposters, 33
Infosys Technologies, 98–99
Integrated life, 134–137; buckets of your
248INDEX
bindex.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 248

INDEX249
life, 139–141; family, 142–143; finding
time for yourself, 144–145; friends and
community, 146–147; leadership,
231–232; living with integrity, 148;
making choices and trade-offs,
137–139, 232; measuring success,
147–148, 232; sabbaticals, 146; spiri-
tual and religious practices, 145; stay-
ing grounded, 141; staying true to
your roots, 144
Integrity, 148; exercise concerning,
231–232
Interview subjects, 207, 209–217; selec-
tion criteria, 208
Intrinsic motivations, 106–107; balancing
with extrinsic motivations, 112; dis-
covering, 107–109
Introspection, 78–79. See alsoself-awareness
Irick, Jaime, 44–45
J
Jager, Dirk, 69
Johnson, Kris, 142–143
Journey to authentic leadership, 15–17;
exercise, 220; giving back, 24–25;
leading, 21–24; preparing for leader-
ship, 17–21
Jung, Andrea, 142, 153–158, 168
K
Kearns, David, 29
King, Reatha Clark, 12–14, 82
Komisar, Randy, 17, 18; having a purpose,
159–160; mentors, 122–124, 195; the
most important person, 120; reflection
leading to self-awareness, 78–80
Kovacevich, Dick, 8–10, 21, 69
Krach, Keith, 90–91
Kroger, 165
L
Lafley, A.G., 69, 178
Langer, Bob, 19
Leadership: after being a CEO, 25–26;
consensus leadership, 187–190; defin-
ing using life stories, 3–15; discovering
in your life story, 220; discovering True
North, 87–90; effectiveness, 186–190,
198–200; exercises, 219–240; fulfill-
ment of, 201–203; integrated, 231–232;
journey to authentic leadership,
16f; phases of, 17–25; preparing for,
17–21; principles, 86–87, 97–99; pur-
pose of, 162–164; styles of, 190–192,
194–196
Leadership relationships, 234-235
Leading, 21–24; with principles, 97–99;
by values, 101–102
Learning from people, 175
Levy, Gus, 189
Life stories: sharing, 176; using to define
leadership, 3–15
Lincoln, Abraham, 33
Listening, 175
Litton Microwave, 60–61
Lofberg, Per, 70, 111
Loneliness, 32
Loners, 33, 35
Losing a loved one, 58–59
Losing sight of True North, 28–29, 33;
craving success, 30–31; fearing failure,
29–30; glory seekers, 33, 34–35;
imposters, 33; loners, 33, 35; losing
touch with reality, 29; rationalizers, 33,
34; shooting stars, 33, 35–36
Losing touch with reality, 29
Losing your way, 221
Lucas, George, 79, 159–160
LucasArts, 79, 159–160
M
Mack, John, 28
Mandela, Nelson, 62–63
Marcus Cicero, 24
Marram, Ellen, 166, 191
McCoy, Buzz, 144–145
McCrea, Annika, 139–140
McCrea, Phil, 139–140, 145
McGovern, Gail, 55–56, 140–141
MCI, 36–41
Medtronic, 22–23, 25, 61–62, 166–167,
180–181
Mentors, 121–122; contrasting, 125–126;
mentorship example, 122–124;
recruiting, 124–125
Missions, aligning around, 180–181
Mistakes, acknowledging, 100
Moore, Ann, 107, 153–154
Moret, Marc, 48
Morgan Stanley, 27–28
Morgridge, John, 145
Motivated capabilities, 112–115
Motivation, 104–106; avoiding traps,
109–111; balancing motivations,
111–112; exercise in understanding,
bindex.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 249

227–228; extrinsic, 106–107; intrinsic,
106–109
Mulcahy, Anne, 29, 138, 170–174, 192,
194
Murthy, Akshata, 144
Murthy, Narayana, 97–99, 144, 167, 196
Mutual respect, 174–176
N
Nagorski, Zyg, 24–25
Nelson, Marilyn Carlson, 58–59, 181–184
Networks, 130
Nixon, Richard, 88–90
Novartis, 48–49
O
O’Connell, Chris, 126, 141
O’Leary, Denise, 145
Optimizing leadership effectiveness,
186–190, 198–200; exercise, 236–237
P
Palisano, Sam, 101–102
Passions, 158–162; aligning your purpose,
164–167; case studies, 153–158,
160–162; exercise in identifying
sources, 233; purpose of business,
167–168; purpose of leadership,
162–164
Pataki, George, 190
Paying it forward, 18–19
Personal board of directors, 131
Personal life, exercise in integrating, 231
Personal support groups, 128–130. See also
support team
Peterson, Joel, 17, 77, 160
Piper, Tad, 79, 129–130
Piper Jaffray, 80
“The Poetry of Self-Compassion,” 82
Porter, Michael, 167
Positive Coaching Alliance, 52–53
Pottruck, David, 31, 72–76
Power: linking leadership style and,
194–196; using wisely, 193–194
Preparing for leadership, 17–21
Preston, James, 157
Principles, 85–87; acknowledging mis-
takes, 100; defined, 97; discovering
True North, 87–90; ethical boundaries,
101; exercise in practicing, 226; lead-
ing with, 97–99. See alsovalues
Professional life, exercise in integrating,
232
Professional support networks, 130
Purcell, Philip, 27–28
Purpose of business, 167–168
Purpose of leadership, 162–164; aligning
your purpose, 164–167; exercise in,
233
Q
Qronos Technology, 90–91
R
Rationalizers, 33, 34
Reality, losing touch with, 29
Reconciliation, 62–63
Recruiting mentors, 124–125
Reflection, 78–79. See alsoself-awareness
Religious practices, 145
Remmereit, Arild, 169–170
Research, 205–208
Responsibilities, taking on additional,
22–23
Reynolds, Paula Rosput, 119
Reynoso, Mark, 141
Rogers, Joe Jr., 146
Roles, 70
Roles leaders play, 234
Roosevelt, Theodore, 202
Rose, Ray, 125
Rosso, Jean-Pierre, 111
Rothschild, Steve, 56–57, 159
S
Sabbaticals, 146
Sandoz, 48
Schulman, Dan, 21–22, 59
Schultz, Howard, 144; avoiding traps,
110; defining leadership using life
story; 3–7; friends, 147; mentors,
124–125; showing up, 177
Schwab, Charles “Chuck,” 103–106
Self-awareness, 67–68; accepting yourself,
82–83; becoming self-aware, 71–82;
blind spots, 78; case studies, 72–76,
80–82; emotional intelligence, 68–69;
exercises, 224–225; importance of,
69–71; peeling back the onion, 76–77;
reflection and introspection, 78–79
Self-confidence, 70
Sharer, Kevin, 36–41, 196–197
250INDEX
bindex.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 250

INDEX251
Sharing life stories, 176
Shooting stars, 33, 35–36
Showing up, 177
Shultz, George, 121, 144, 193
Skills, complementary, 71
Smith, Roger, 23
Spiritual practices, 145
Starbucks, 4–7
Staying grounded, 135. See alsointegrated
life
Stretching people, 179–180
Style of leadership, 190–192; adapting to
the situation, 196–197; adapting to
your teammates, 197–198; and power,
194–196
Success: craving, 30–31; measuring,
147–148
Support team, 117–118; close friends,
126–128; exercise in building,
229–230; families, 120–121; helping
teammates, 178–179; mentors,
121–126; the most important person,
118–120; personal board of directors,
131; personal support groups, 128–130;
professional support networks, 130
Sweeney, Mike, 57–58
Sweet spot for leadership, 112–115
T
Tait, Richard, 127–128, 163
Taking on added responsibility, 22–23
Testing values under pressure, 91–97
Thain, John, 107
Thiry, Kent, 126, 145
Thomas, Robert, 46
Thompson, Jim, 52–53
Tierney, Tom, 136
Time for yourself, 144–145
Toldalagi, Marianne, 112, 121
Trade-offs, 137–139
Transformation from “I” to “We,” 43–46;
case studies, 46-63
Traps, avoiding, 109–111
Treating others as equals, 175
True North: discovering, 87–90; losing
sight of, 27–36
Twin Cities RISE!, 56
U
U.S. Genomics, 19
V
Vagelos, Roy, 8, 164–165, 179
Values, 85–87; acknowledging mistakes,
100; conflicting, 90–91; discovering
True North, 87–90; ethical boundaries,
101; exercise in practicing, 226; lead-
ing by, 101–102; testing under pres-
sure, 91–97. See alsoprinciples
Vasella, Daniel, 30–31, 46–50, 85–86
Venter, Craig, 19, 192
Vredenburgh, Judy, 70, 119–120
Vulnerability, 80–82
W
Watergate cover-up, 88–90
Watson, Tom, 101
Weinberg, Sidney, 188
Welch, Jack, 23, 37, 38, 179, 191
“The Well of Grief,” 82–83
Wells Fargo, 10
Whitehead, John, 187–190, 192
Whyte, David, 82–83
Winfrey, Oprah, 50–52
Woodwark, Alice, 110, 113
Y
Young Presidents’ Organization (YPO),
130
Your Development as an Authentic
Leader, 219, exercise, 238-240
Z
Zinn, Jon Kabat, 60
bindex.qxp  1/17/07  8:27 PM  Page 251